===== PAGE 1 =====
Unraveling Code-Mixing Patterns in Migration Discourse:
Automated Detection and Analysis of Online Conversations on Reddit
Fedor Vitiugin, Sunok Lee, Henna Paakki, Anastasiia Chizhikova, Nitin Sawhney
Department of Computer Science
Aalto University, Finland
Abstract
The surge in global migration patterns underscores the imper-
ative of integrating migrants seamlessly into host communi-
ties, necessitating inclusive and trustworthy public services.
Despite the Nordic countries’ robust public sector infrastruc-
ture, recent immigrants often encounter barriers to access-
ing these services, exacerbating social disparities and eroding
trust. Addressing digital inequalities and linguistic diversity
is paramount in this endeavor. This paper explores the uti-
lization of code-mixing, a communication strategy prevalent
among multilingual speakers, in migration-related discourse
on social media platforms such as Reddit.
We present Ensemble Learning for Multilingual Identifi-
cation of Code-mixed Texts (ELMICT), a novel approach
designed to automatically detect code-mixed messages in
migration-related discussions. Leveraging ensemble learning
techniques for combining multiple tokenizers’ outputs and
pre-trained language models, ELMICT demonstrates high
performance (with F1 more than 0.95) in identifying code-
mixing across various languages and contexts, particularly in
cross-lingual zero-shot conditions (with avg. F1 more than
0.70). Moreover, the utilization of ELMICT helps to analyze
the prevalence of code-mixing in migration-related threads
compared to other thematic categories on Reddit, shedding
light on the topics of concern to migrant communities.
Our findings reveal insights into the communicative strate-
gies employed by migrants on social media platforms, offer-
ing implications for the development of inclusive digital pub-
lic services and conversational systems. By addressing the
research questions posed in this study, we contribute to the
understanding of linguistic diversity in migration discourse
and pave the way for more effective tools for building trust in
multicultural societies.
Introduction
Between 2000 and 2020, global migration patterns wit-
nessed significant shifts, with a 74% growth, equivalent to
approximately 37 million people. Europe experienced an in-
crease of 30 million migrants, closely followed by North
America with 18 million, and Africa with 10 million mi-
grants (McAuliffe et al. 2022). The escalating diversity em-
phasizes the importance of seamlessly integrating migrants
Copyright © 2024, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
language
message
M1
English
Moved here from France because my wife is Finnish. I
enjoy it enough to want to stay here.
M2
code-mixed
WOW, sounds great to me, man. OK, kiitos paljon for
your answer! [EN] WOW, sounds great to me, man. OK,
thanks a lot for your answer!
M3
code-switched
Sun tarinas on yksi hyv¨a syy miksi oppia Englanti.
And of course... you know what happen next. [EN]
Her/his story is one good reason to learn English. And
of course... you know what happen next. .
M4
Finnish
Moikka! En oo sujuva suomen kieless¨a ja juuri nyt
opiskelen suomen lukiossa. [EN] Hello! I’m not fluent
in Finnish, and right now, I’m studying at a Finnish high
school.
Table 1: Examples of code-mixed and non-mixed messages
for English-Finnish pair. (Note: messages were paraphrased
for anonymity.)
into local processes and requires public services to facilitate
smooth adaptation.
The Nordic countries have well-functioning and mostly
equitable public sector services, earning the trust of a ma-
jority of citizens. However, this trust and efficiency do not
always extend to recent immigrants and migrant communi-
ties residing in the region. For many migrants, these pub-
lic services may seem inaccessible, lacking inclusivity or
trustworthiness, which significantly undermines their inte-
gration (Yeasmin et al. 2020; Intke-Hern´andez et al. 2015).
Digital inequalities among specific groups can exacerbate
social disparities, further marginalizing them and potentially
undermining trust (Madianou 2015). Therefore, it’s vital
for local municipalities to prioritize objectives like enhanc-
ing integration, promoting inclusion, and supporting migrant
communities. Many cities are actively working to create in-
novative digital public services, such as chatbots, especially
in areas like healthcare, employment, and social services.
However, it’s essential to ensure that these services are ac-
cessible to users with diverse linguistic backgrounds and
varying levels of digital literacy.
In the public sector and non-profit organizations assist-
ing migrants, language is not restricted to a single mode
of expression. Multilingual speakers tend to interleave two
or more languages when communicating, a phenomenon
arXiv:2406.08633v1  [cs.CL]  12 Jun 2024

===== PAGE 2 =====
known as code-mixing. This strategy has become increas-
ingly prevalent in today’s diverse linguistic and cultural
landscape (Gumperz 1982). Due to this communication
style, migrants naturally lean towards code-mixing to more
effectively convey their circumstances and context.
A recent study highlights the complex linguistic prac-
tices employed by migrants in computer-mediated commu-
nication (McEntee-Atalianis, Ateek, and Gardner-Chloros
2023; Ikeh 2023). Social media platforms provide bilingual
users with a dynamic space to navigate their multiple identi-
ties online post-resettlement (Harwood et al. 2019; Gardner-
Chloros 2020). Our research focuses on the Reddit platform,
selected not only for the availability of data collection but
also for its community-based structure and user-generated
thread labels, simplifying content analysis.
Table 1 demonstrates examples of various code-mixed,
code-switched, and non-mixed messages. M1 and M4
are prototypical single-language messages in English and
Finnish, respectively. M2 is an example of a code-mixed
message, where the user included the Finnish phrase “kiitos
paljon” instead of “thanks a lot” in his English message. Fi-
nally, M3 is an example of a code-switched message, where
the user starts their text with a Finnish sentence to explain
the situation and continues with an English sentence. We
will explain the difference between code-mixing and code-
switching in the next section.
The emergence of Multilingual Large Language Mod-
els (LLMs) has demonstrated exceptional capabilities
across various tasks (Chang et al. 2023; Zahera et al.
2023), showcasing state-of-the-art performance through
zero-shot or few-shot methods. While extensive research
has explored their monolingual capabilities, their poten-
tial in cross-lingual communication remains relatively un-
explored (Zhang et al. 2023). However, current intelligence-
based conversational systems often fail to meet the commu-
nicative expectations of multilingual migrant users, resulting
in linguistic and cultural barriers. Consequently, there is an
urgent need for the public sector to evolve these systems,
considering the communication needs of migrants.
We explore migrants’ information requests shared on so-
cial media. Our paper addresses the following research ques-
tions:
RQ1: Can we automatically identify code-mixed social
media messages from Reddit related to migration to Fin-
land?
RQ2: How proficiently can the proposed approach iden-
tify instances of code-mixing in social media conversations
in cross-lingual zero-shot conditions
RQ3: Which content topics exhibit a high proportion of
code-mixed messages, and what are the differences in code-
mixing usage between migration-related threads and threads
in other user-defined categories?
To tackle the first two questions, we introduced a flexible
approach named Ensemble Learning for Multilingual Identi-
fication of Code-mixed Texts (ELMICT), which relies on en-
semble learning techniques (Abimannan et al. 2023). This
method effectively detects code-mixed social media mes-
sages. Our model integrates outputs from multiple tokeniz-
ers and fine-tuned pre-trained language models to identify
texts containing code-mixing. We illustrate that using tok-
enizers or fine-tuned models separately yields lower perfor-
mance and is less robust, particularly for texts containing
out-of-vocabulary tokens. In addressing the third question,
we calculate the proportion of code-mixing messages across
various topics, including migration, tourism, politics, and
general discussions.
The subsequent section of this paper will first present re-
lated research, followed by an explanation of our proposed
method for detecting code-mixed social media messages and
the setup for topic modeling of detected messages. Follow-
ing this, we will detail our experimental setup and analyze
the results. Finally, we will offer our conclusions and outline
potential future work.
Related Work
In this section, we will discuss relevant works about code-
mixing, and research on its usage in migrant communica-
tion. We also discuss methods for code-mixed text identi-
fication and the application of these methods for different
tasks.
Code-Mixing and Code-Switching
Central to this work is the linguistic concept called “code-
mixing”, how it differs from “code-switching” and other
language alternating techniques. Both are commonly used
throughout the world, and are especially crucial for com-
munities of migrants, expats, bilinguals, etc (Gardner-
Chloros 2020; McEntee-Atalianis, Ateek, and Gardner-
Chloros 2023). These occur when two languages are used
spontaneously in one sentence or expression.
Although the main purpose of our work is to research
code-mixing in migration-related communication, we also
wish to provide key definitions and discuss the differences
between code-mixing and code-switching, as these are cru-
cial for this study. More detailed information on these phe-
nomena provided in related linguistics research cited in this
subsection.
Many scholars have attempted to define code-switching
and code-mixing. Weinreich, a leading researcher on bilin-
gualism, has claimed that “the ideal bilingual is some-
one who is able to switch between languages when re-
quired to do so by changes in the situation but does not
switch when the speech situation is unchanged and certainly
not within a single sentence” (Weinreich 1953). Special-
ists in code switching, however, recognize code switching
as a functional practice and as a sign of bilingual compe-
tence (Toribio 2001). Competence includes two aspects: flu-
ency in speaking two or more languages and comprehen-
sive understanding of them, even if speaking fluently is not
necessary. It’s evident that code-switching requires a high
level of proficiency in multiple languages, rather than being
a consequence of insufficient knowledge in one or the other
language (Poplack et al. 2000).
Code-switching refers to the “use of two or more lan-
guages in the same conversation, usually within the same
conversational turn, or even within the same sentence of that
turn” (Myers-Scotton 1993). Code-switching is the shifting
by a speaker from language A to language B.

===== PAGE 3 =====
There are varying definitions of code-mixing. It’s de-
scribed as instances where a mix between the grammar of
one language and another language is employed without
changing the grammar of the initial language used (Mab-
ule 2015). On the other hand, “Conversational code-mixing
involves the deliberate mixing of two languages without an
associated topic change” (Wardhaugh and Fuller 2021). The
definition indicates that code-mixing is typically used as
a solidarity marker in multilingual communities. Similarly,
according to other views, in code-mixing speakers switch
between languages even within words (e.g. Spanglish or Fin-
glish as a mixture of the English and Spanish or English and
Finnish languages relatively) and/or phrases (Milroy and
Muysken 1995; Auer 2013)
In this paper, the term “code-mixing” is used to indicate a
switch between languages, in which a single word or phrase
from one language (here: Finnish, Spanish, or Korean) is
integrated into another language (here: English).
The Role of Code-Mixing in Migrant
Communication
Code-mixing among multilingual speakers commonly ob-
served in close relationships, particularly when speaking
with friends and family who share similar linguistic and
cultural backgrounds (Wulandari 2021). However, speakers
tend to avoid code-mixing if they’re unsure how their inter-
locutors will react. Moreover, even when speakers are aware
of their conversational partner’s language proficiency, they
may adjust their language usage to match the partner’s code-
mixing style and frequency, especially if trust is perceived to
be lacking (Kusumawati and Prihadi 2023). This highlights
how code-mixing serves as an indicator of trust and inti-
macy levels among multilingual speakers (Choi, Lee, and
Lee 2023).
From the civil service practitioners’ side, it is critical to
make sure that services are accessible at the user experi-
ence level and linguistically, rather than broader aspects of
its design and impact. Practitioners cited the lack of staff di-
versity and linguistic exclusion as the main challenges for
better inclusion of citizens in such services (Drobotowicz
et al. 2023). On the other hand, migrants may encounter
challenges, particularly in critical contexts such as local gov-
ernment offices and hospitals, which place greater demands
on language proficiency (St John 2023). Moreover, personi-
fication of the conversational agent could increase engage-
ment (Ostrowski et al. 2021), increase trust and relation-
ships (Schaefer et al. 2016; Luria et al. 2019).
Conversational agents fail to understand users for many
reasons, multilingual users often blame their unique speech
behavior—code-mixing and drop the conversation or think
they have lost control of the device because they do not un-
derstand the reason for the failure (Ponnusamy et al. 2022).
Experiences like this could greatly diminish the users’ well-
established trust and intimacy with the conversational agent.
For this reason, a code-mixing conversational agent should
be designed to make clear statements and detailed explana-
tions of their failure to prevent the multilingual users from
getting frustrated by unnecessary misunderstanding (Yap,
Lee, and Roto 2021).
Recent study participants prefer their agent to avoid un-
necessary code-mixing but understand its usage in certain
contexts. This preference originates from experiences where
they were perceived as code-mixing due to language limita-
tions and the importance of trust for acceptance in relation-
ships. Additionally, designers could enhance trust and inti-
macy with code-mixing users by giving the agent a persona
with diverse cultural or language backgrounds and similar
code-mixing skills. This would enable users to contact the
agent, similar to how they interact with other multilingual
individuals (Choi, Lee, and Lee 2023).
Code-Mixed Data Processing
Recently, there has been a growing interest in the develop-
ment of language models and technologies tailored for han-
dling code-mixed content. Researchers have delved into ex-
ploring joint models capable of simultaneously performing
language identification and part-of-speech tagging (Barman,
Wagner, and Foster 2016). This dual-level language identifi-
cation spans both word and sentence levels (Rani, McCrae,
and Fransen 2022). A method, based on the UDLDI model,
employs a CNN architecture that incorporates enriched sen-
tence and word embeddings (Goswami et al. 2020).
Addressing the complexities of code-mixed content, cer-
tain studies have simplified texts by transforming them into
a monolingual form through back-transliteration (Dowlagar
and Mamidi 2021; Gautam et al. 2021). However, the effi-
cacy of these techniques heavily relies on the accuracy of
transliteration and translation methods employed.
Transfer Learning approaches have gained widespread at-
tention in leveraging pre-trained language models for ana-
lyzing code-mixed data (Aguilar and Solorio 2019; Krishnan
et al. 2021). Yet, the substitution of tokens in cross-lingual
transfer learning can introduce grammatical inconsistencies
in the resultant sentences, potentially impairing performance
on token-sensitive tasks. To overcome this challenge, token-
alignment techniques have emerged, facilitating not only to-
ken replacement but also considering contextual similarity
to ensure grammatical coherence in both training and in-
ference stages (Feng, Li, and Koehn 2022). The word seg-
mentation method has shown promising results in code-
mixed data processing. Utilization of a linguistics-based
toolkit is maintaining the quality of monolingual transla-
tion with Hokkien-Mandarin code-mixed texts, widespread
among Chinese immigrants (Lu et al. 2023).
A review of recent literature underscores a pronounced
emphasis on the tokenization issue. Indeed, accurate tok-
enization and word segmentation significantly enhance per-
formance in code-mixing-related tasks. Furthermore, many
studies have used synthetic training data, posing challenges
for further analysis of real-world scenarios where users em-
ploy code-mixing in their communication.
Method
This study aims to explore the usage of code-mixing by
migrants in social media. In this section, we present a
supervised-learning classification model for detecting code-
mixing in social media and describe methods used for ana-
lyzing code-mixed texts.

===== PAGE 4 =====
Figure 1: Example of differences in single-language pre-
trained model tokenizer outputs.
Text Classification
Recent work in text classification analysis clearly demon-
strates the necessity of precise word segmentation and tok-
enization. Compound words, which are quite rare in the ma-
jority of languages, play a significant role in Finnish. Fig-
ure 1 demonstrates the difference in English and Finnish
pre-trained tokenizer outputs for the word “terveyskeskus”
which means “public health center”. This word is widely
used not only by locals but also migrants, and plays an im-
portant role in their daily vocabulary.
The Ensemble Learning for Multilingual Identification of
Code-mixed Texts (ELMICT) model aims to merge pre-
trained language models with features generated by tokeniz-
ers through ensemble modeling. To ensure the classifica-
tion model receives comprehensive information, we exper-
imented with various combinations of tokenizer outputs, ul-
timately retaining four of them:
• English BPE-tokenizer – English language is used as
the basic language in our datasets, so we choose the
tokenizer from the most popular 1 English transformer
model;
• local language BPE-tokenizer – Finnish, Korean, or
Spanish BPE-tokenizer for related datasets;
• multilingual BPE-tokenizer – we found that for some
cases, multilingual tokenizers are also providing correct
outputs and include multilingual BERT in our model;
• whitespace tokenizer – NLTK whitespace tokenizer pro-
vides additional information as the most naive method.
Two other components of the proposed model are a lan-
guage detection tool and a fine-tuned pre-trained trans-
former model for code-mixing detection. For language de-
tection, lingua Python library 2 was used in mixed-language
mode. The model received information about the existence
of English and local wordsphrases in the target text. XLM-
RoBERTa was used for contextual detection of code-mixing.
We fine-tuned a pre-trained model for the sequence classifi-
cation task on English-Finnish texts (for both monolingual
and cross-lingual tasks).
The architecture of ELMICT model presented in Figure 2
has combined two approaches: contextual and feature-based.
For the contextual approach, we fine-tune the multilingual
pre-trained large language model. Soft labels output from
1based on HuggingFace.com model popularity statistics
2https://github.com/pemistahl/lingua-py
Figure 2: ELMICT model architecture.
the fine-tuned model were used as features for the ensem-
ble model. As features, we used information extracted by 4
tokenizers.
Our approach is based on the intuition that specialized to-
kenizers (Finnish tokenizer for a word in Finnish) will split
relevant text into tokens more accurately, while unspecial-
ized tokenizers (like English applied for word in Finnish)
will generate more tokens (parts of word). It means that
when an ensemble learning model receives the result of tok-
enization from different models, it can track which tokeniza-
tion split of out-of-vocabulary tokens was done wrong.
Topic Modeling
To analyze the difference in migrant-related and general
Reddit posts, we applied BERTopic technique (Grootendorst
2022) for topic modeling. The method utilizes BERT em-
beddings (Devlin et al. 2018) to cluster the texts and lever-
ages c-TF-IDF algorithm to further generate topic represen-
tations.
First, we utilized sentence embeddings to convert input
documents into numerical representations, enabling the cap-
ture of semantic similarity between documents. Second,
we employed the UMAP dimensionality reduction algo-
rithm (McInnes et al. 2018) to address the high dimension-
ality of embeddings, which can make clustering challenging
due to the curse of dimensionality. The clustering algorithm
was used HDBSCAN (McInnes, Healy, and Astels 2017),
the default for BERTopic. Third, we experimented with var-
ious topic representation parameters and decided to use uni-
and bi-grams only. Finally, we tested different minimal topic
sizes and determined a threshold of 0.3% of the original
dataset size. These steps resulted in not only a high coher-
ence score of 0.8 but also in topics that are interpretable by
humans, which we further analyze in-depth.
Model Implementation
We maintain the same number of layers as the original pre-
trained model – 24 layers for XML-RoBERTa (Conneau
et al. 2019). For the model’s fine-tuning, we used 0.5 ∗10−5
learning rate, 10 epochs. The number of frozen layers for

===== PAGE 5 =====
Community
Unlabelled
Migration
Non-mixed
Code-mixed
r/GoingToSpain
39871
3514
878
122
r/Finland
174212
12632
2055
249
r/korea
130388
3337
973
27
Table 2: Dataset statistics.
each model was detected by grid search. The model was
trained on NVIDIA A100-SXM4 with 40Gb GPU RAM.
Experiment Setup
Data collection and annotation
We collected posts and comments through the official Reddit
API 3 from three country-related communities (subreddits):
r/Finland, r/korea, and r/GoingToSpain. All three communi-
ties primarily use English, making them more accessible for
migrants. Each community has user-generated topic-related
labels known as “flair”, including migration-related flair.
All messages collected from location related communi-
ties were manually annotated by one human assessor with
living experience in the corresponding area and language
proficiency both in English and the code-mixed language.
Additionally, we enlisted two individuals residing in each
location to label 100 random messages from their respective
communities to calculate assessor agreement. The Krippen-
dorff’s alpha for r/GoingToSpain is 0.87, for r/Finland is
0.75, and for r/korea – 0.92.
The labeling task was to assign one of the two classes for
determining whether a given message is code-mixed or not
for a target language pair. For uncertain words, the authors
consulted with individuals, who are both proficient or native
in target languages and currently living in the target country.
Before dataset annotation, we conducted a simple prepro-
cessing step to filter out all uninformative tweets (based on
manual analysis of a random sample, more than 92% of mes-
sages with length ≤4 tokens are uninformative). Table 2
presents the quantity of train and test instances for each cat-
egory, as well as unlabeled text entities.
During the process of labelling data related to Finland,
several types of Finnish concepts were detected. The first
group consists of cultural concepts and includes words like
“sisu” (strength of will), “handknit villasukat” (hand knitted
wool socks as marker of coziness), and “mummola” (grand-
mother’s house). The second group contains words related to
civil organizations and public services, like “tilastokeskus”
(national statistical institution in Finland), “terveyskeskus”
(public health center). The third group contains figurative
compound words: “piruntorjuntabunkkeri” (church), “be-
tonihelvetti” (concrete buildings). The final group is obscene
language and slang: “mamu”; “ryss¨a”. Code-mixing gener-
ally occurs without special marking within the sentence, or
sometimes marked by quotation marks.
In the context of texts related to migration in Korea, code-
mixing has been observed predominantly with the use of
Korean terms that reflect specific cultural and social con-
texts: “mukbanger”, “닭발”, “hagwon”, and “chaebol”, etc.
3https://www.reddit.com/dev/api/
In code-switching texts, Korean words are romanized, mean-
ing they are transcribed phonetically into English, rather
than being written directly in Hangul, the Korean alpha-
bet. For example, due to Korean culture’s unique practice
of using specific titles instead of names to address some-
one, terms like “unnie”, which means older sister, or re-
ferring to a child’s father by combining “Papa” with the
child’s name, are used. Additionally, “mukbanger”, which
refers to a YouTuber who broadcasts their eating, and “닭발”
(translated as “chicken feet”), a word included to represent
a facet of Korean food culture, illustrate the expression of
cultural phenomena related to food that originated in Korea.
Similarly, although “hagwon”, denoting a private tutoring
academy, can be translated into English, its use more pre-
cisely reflects Korea’s unique educational culture. Moreover,
“다문화” (damunhwa) is used to refer to people from di-
verse cultural backgrounds within Korean society; although
’migrant’ exists as an English equivalent, “damunhwa” is
used to convey the societal context more accurately. Notably,
terms like “chaebol” (representing rich people or conglom-
erates) and “JY Lee”, a quintessential figure in Korean chae-
bol culture, are utilized to denote Korea’s distinctive corpo-
rate culture.
In the Spanish migration context, the majority of cases
in which there was code-switching occurred are specific bu-
reaucratic terms like “extranjeria” (foreigner), “empadron-
amiento” (census), “pareja de hecho” (domestic partnership)
etc. These words and phrases do not have a direct English
translation and in the context of conversations related to mi-
gration, it is important to be precise with the terms, so the
users use the right Spanish terminology. Interestingly, some-
times they do that with terms that could be easily translated
to English: “Generally you should be fine with the seguridad
social (social security)...” Other, much less frequent cases in-
clude the insertion of Spanish slang “guirris” (tourists from
Northern Europe or UK) and the usage of greetings (Hola
(Hi)! at the beginning of a message in English).
Schemes
To evaluate the proposed method, we compared it with sev-
eral state-of-the-art models. The full list of proposed mod-
eling schemes for evaluation is the following (* denotes our
proposed models and others are the baselines):
• lingua – library for language identification based on
model and data provided by (Biemann et al. 2004);
• Random Forest – classification model outputs of ensem-
ble of tokenizers;
• Adaptive Boosting – classification model outputs of en-
semble of tokenizers;
• Gradient Boosting – classification model outputs of en-
semble of tokenizers;
• XLM-RoBERTa – multilingual XLM-RoBERTa fine-
tuned for code-mixed texts identification;
• ChatGPT-3.5 – zero-shot setting for detecting code-
mixed texts with use of OpenAI’s ChatGPT-3.5;
• * ELMICT – the model based on Ensemble Learning for
Multilingual Identification of Code-mixed Texts.

===== PAGE 6 =====
Model Scheme
ACC
F1
AUC
lingua
78.70±2.18
62.39±3.16
73.20±5.28
Random Forest
71.74±0.08
71.55±0.27
71.85±0.64
Adaptive Boosting
69.57±5.75
69.17±6.21
69.77±6.55
Gradient Boosting
68.70±6.81
68.04±7.65
68.86±6.33
XLM-RoBERTa
97.05±0.62
92.08±1.74
91.60±1.23
ChatGPT-3.5
77.45±1.62
54.82±3.28
67.28±4.26
* ELMICT
97.55±0.13
92.84±4.22
94.90±2.01
Table 3: Comparison with baselines. Results of binary clas-
sification. The best performances are in bold. Training
and developing data is code-mixing messages in English-
Finnish. 5-fold CV. ∗denotes the proposed models.
We utilize three metrics to assess the effectiveness of clas-
sification models for detection of code-mixing, which are
Accuracy (ACC), Area Under the Receiver Operating Char-
acteristic Curve (AUC), and macro F-measure (F1), in align-
ment with practices of evaluation of binary text classifica-
tion.
Result Analysis and Discussion
We begin by presenting the performance results of the pro-
posed ELMICT model compared to baseline schemes for re-
search question RQ1. This is followed by an analysis of the
proposed model’s performance for cross-lingual classifica-
tion for RQ2, and a detailed examination of social media
content featuring code-mixing for RQ3.
English-Finnish Code-Mixing Detection
Initially, we assess our model’s performance on English-
Finnish code-mixed messages. We employ 5-fold cross-
validation to randomly split the data into train-dev chunks in
a 90-10 proportion. Table 3 illustrates the performance eval-
uation of the ELMICT model compared to other schemes,
addressing RQ1. The results indicate that our proposed
model consistently outperforms the baselines across all met-
rics. Particularly noteworthy is the superior performance
of the ELMICT model compared to the fine-tuned XLM-
RoBERTa model. This underscores the significance of lever-
aging features generated by multiple tokenizers and a lan-
guage detector module for code-mixing text detection tasks.
Additionally, the performance of Random Forest and lin-
gua models demonstrates that utilizing features without soft
labels generated by fine-tuned pre-trained language mod-
els underperform. Moreover, the classification results high-
light the limitations of ChatGPT-3.5 in zero-shot learning
settings. While we don’t explore fine-tuning or prompt-
engineering approaches, it’s plausible that further enhance-
ments could improve the performance of LLMs. Lastly,
the experiment reveals that Random Forest outperforms
other ensemble models like Adaptive Boosting and Gradient
Boosting. We exclusively utilize Random Forest for ensem-
ble modeling in further experiments.
In addition to cross-validation, we test the higher per-
forming models on a test batch, which contains data from
different threads and is excluded from train and develop-
ment batches used for models’ training and fine-tuning.
Model Scheme
ACC
F1
AUC
lingua
81.82
81.64
81.55
XLM-RoBERTa
93.94
93.93
93.93
ChatGPT-3.5
74.75
74.58
74.54
* ELMICT
97.64
97.64
97.62
Table 4: Comparison with baselines. Results of binary clas-
sification. The best performances are in bold. Testing data
is code-mixing messages in English-Finnish. ∗denotes the
proposed models.
Model Scheme
ACC
F1
AUC
English-Korean
lingua
97.10
49.26
50.00
XLM-RoBERTa
93.00
63.84
74.65
ChatGPT-3.5
92.40
57.58
63.14
* ELMICT
96.70
66.80
64.85
English-Spanish
lingua
87.80
46.75
50.00
XLM-RoBERTa
88.60
76.88
81.16
ChatGPT-3.5
48.80
44.38
64.14
* ELMICT
90.40
73.57
70.18
Table 5: Comparison with baselines. Results of cross-lingual
binary classification. The best performances are in bold.
Testing data is code-mixing messages in English-Korean
and English-Spanish. ∗denotes the proposed models.
Additional experiments demonstrate the robustness of our
model. The test batch includes 297 texts (131 code-mixed
and 166 non-code-mixed texts). Table 4 demonstrates com-
parable performance for the majority of schemes, and sig-
nificant improvement in the performance of lingua detec-
tor. Furthermore, the experiment on test data batch helps to
prove the usage of ELMICT for the classification English-
Finnish dataset to answer RQ3. While we expected a drop in
model performance because of possible overfitting, the per-
formance is even higher.
Cross-lingual Code-Mixing Detection
In addition to monolingual classification tasks, there are also
cross-lingual classification settings where the languages in
the training and testing data are different. To assess the
proposed framework’s cross-lingual capability, we utilize a
zero-shot setting, where we train and validate classification
schemes on the data of English-Finnish dataset and test the
model on the data from the other dataset (English-Korean
or English-Spanish). For test data classification, we use the
same models from the previous experiment. The complete
findings of the cross-lingual classification are outlined in Ta-
ble 5.
In comparison to the other schemes, ELMICT ex-
hibits comparable performance with the fine-tuned XLM-
RoBERTa model. ELMICT demonstrates higher ACC for
both datasets, while because of strong imbalance in both
datasets, the other two metrics are more relevant. While
for English-Korean messages ELMICT has higher F1, for
English-Spanish fine-tuned XLM-RoBERTa has higher F1.
Moreover, XLM-RoBERTa demonstrates higher AUC for

===== PAGE 7 =====
both datasets. While at the same time, two other schemes
demonstrate random results with AUC equals 50%.
Topic Analysis
Figure 3 presents the top-10 most popular topics with use of
code-mixing in threads with “Immigration” flair. The high-
est level of code-mixing usage in migration-related posts
was detected in the topic related to guns (patruunatehdas –
cartridge factory; tarkkuuskiv¨a¨ari – sniper rifle). The sec-
ond most topic with high code-mixing usage is about em-
ployment and bank accounts in Finland (ty¨o- ja elinkeino-
toimisto (TE) – Employment and Economic Development
Office; pankki – bank) because they are widely used not
only in relation to financial services, but also for digital au-
thentication in various services. The third topic with a high
level of code-mixed messages is about the Russo-Ukrainian
war and Finland’s membership in NATO (siviilipalvelus –
civil service; taisteli puolella – fought on the side). The
other seven topics could be divided into two groups. The
first one includes everyday life questions that could be
addressed during migration: sauna (l¨oyly – steam), shop-
ping (kierr¨atyskeskus – recycling center), apartment rent-
ing (asunto – apartment), healthcare (hoito – care, therapy),
and public utilities (p¨orssis¨ahk¨o – exchange electricity, also
known as spot electricity).
The second group is about popular cultural media content:
local music and movie subtitles. These topics include many
words and phrases in Finnish related to song and movie ti-
tles and artists’ names. The latter group should not be classi-
fied as code-mixing because all these words and phrases are
proper names. However, to avoid the classification of these
messages as code-mixing is a separate challenging NLP-
task. It could be tackled by applying a multilingual named
entity recognition model in the future. This would have re-
quired additional experiments, though, which were beyond
the scope of this paper.
Conclusions and Future Work
This paper explores code-mixing patterns in migration-
related online conversations. Our proposed Ensemble Learn-
ing for Multilingual Identification of Code-mixed Text
(ELMICT) method allows for detection of messages with
code-mixing in predominantly English-based datasets. The
core idea of ELMICT is its use in combination with multiple
tokenizers outputs and soft labels generated by a pre-trained
language model. The utilization of context-based soft labels
allows us to predict code-mixing usage in migration-related
contexts (everyday life challenges and cultural nuances),
while tokenizer’s outputs made models more robust in the
new linguistic context. Experiments on multiple English-
based datasets that included code-mixing with words from
Finnish, Korean, or Spanish show that the proposed model
outperforms several baselines in the classification task. Uti-
lization of ELMICT allows us to analyse the usage of code-
mixing in migration-related threads on r/Finland subreddit.
The results of our analysis highlights a list of topics where
code-mixing is highly predictable (housing market, shop-
ping, public utilities, and healthcare), while also bringing
Figure 3: Proportion of code-mixing messages per topic per
flair in English-Finnish dataset.
to light particular topics (guns and hunting) and temporal
discourses (Russo-Ukrainian war and NATO membership of
Finland) where code-mixing was seen be be more widely
used.
The ELMICT model holds promising potential for ap-
plication in public services that can utilize code-mixing
in conversational agents and enhance trusting relations
with migrants by appropriate usage of specific vocabular-
ies. This proposed model could be a part of the pipeline
of model training in the Retrieval-Augmented Genera-
tion (RAG) module or database refinement. By harness-
ing the capabilities of the ELMICT model, organizations
can strengthen their customer relationships by building trust
based on communication and potentially innovate new so-
lutions, grounded in the vocabulary that unites locals and
migrants. The versatility and adaptability of ELMICT with
the use of different language-related tokenizers beyond its
initial scope could be one of the exploratory directions for
future work.
There are certain limitations to our study that future work
could address. First, the dataset we used for experimenta-
tion only contains messages posted during a limited time
and contains information from only 3 subreddits. To improve
the model’s performance across various language pairs of
code-mixing, it would be valuable to extend this dataset to
include data collected over a longer period, more diverse
topics, and additional languages. Second, the topic analysis
highlights the necessity of applying additional preprocessing

===== PAGE 8 =====
steps, such as named entities recognition for proper names
related to popular culture (titles, artists, etc.) Third, our pro-
posed model only identifies text contained in code-mixing,
while for building conversational agents or any other appli-
cation of code-mixed vocabulary, it’s necessary to extract
these tokens. Usage of ELMICT will help to increase the ef-
ficiency of data annotation for the token classification task
because of the automated filtering of monolingual texts.
Reproducibility
Datasets and code for the experiments described in this pa-
per will be available for research purposes at the public
repository https://github.com/vitiugin/elmict.
Broader Impact and Ethics Statement
For multilingual speakers, code-mixing is a communica-
tion method typically used when they are in a relaxed state
and with people with whom they share close relationships.
This linguistic strategy is employed specifically when the
multilingual speaker has a trustful and intimate relationship
with another person who shares similar linguistic and cul-
tural backgrounds (Wulandari 2021; Kusumawati and Pri-
hadi 2023). In this context, to effectively build a trusting
relationship between multilingual migrants, counselors, and
conversational agents, incorporating the feature of code-
mixing into the system is necessary. This adaptation would
help migrants perceive that public services using human and
conversational agents share similar linguistic and cultural
backgrounds, fostering a sense of trust. However, we must
ensure that such perceptions of trust induced by conver-
sational agents using code-mixing in conversations do not
make users believe such systems to be infallible or anthro-
pomorphised; hence designing such systems to incorporate
explainable outputs and accurate content is crucial.
Furthermore, previous research has shown that multilin-
gual users experience similar feelings of pressure when con-
versing with monolingual conversational agents as when
conversing with strangers (Choi, Lee, and Lee 2023). This
has led to the recognition that code-mixing conversational
agents can provide multilingual users with a feeling of in-
clusion and acceptance in society. In recognizing the deep
connection between social integration and trust formation
during the migration process (Dinesen and Hooghe 2010),
it becomes evident that there is a significant opportunity for
conversational agents to aid in this process. By providing a
window of opportunity for migrants to build trust with pub-
lic services, conversational agents can play a role in support-
ing migrants (and their human counselors) as they adapt to
and integrate into their new environment. Aligning with this,
it is of utmost importance to build relationships between mi-
grants, human counselors, and conversational agents as part
of a system of public services that can promote social in-
tegration and acceptance while migrants adapt to their new
environment. As a result, these code-mixed digital offerings
can be leveraged well to support the social integration of mi-
grants, providing a pivotal step in promoting more inclusive
public sector services.
We recognize that there are many ethical implications of
this work related to discrimination, misuse and privacy of
end-users. Furthermore, we assume that language identity
of users such as code-mixing level could be used for profil-
ing, may result in discriminatory practices. Since we demon-
strate the potential to identify such attributes on social me-
dia, we are aware of how our research could be misused and
abused, discriminating migrants (Yim and Cl´ement 2019;
Faingold 2022; Ekwere 2022).
To protect privacy, we refrain from disclosing sensitive
personal information. Given Reddit’s anonymous nature and
the absence of mandatory personal data sharing, we commit
to not sharing collected data that could be used to identify
individuals. For reproducibility, we only provide comment
IDs and code-mixing binary labels, keeping users’ right to
delete their data in the future if they choose.
We also strongly encourage future studies to consider the
ethical dimensions of detecting language-related character-
istics in social media texts, from study inception to final re-
search dissemination.
Acknowledgments
This work is supported by the Trust-M research project,
a partnership between Aalto University, University of
Helsinki, Tampere University, and the City of Espoo, funded
in-part by a grant from the Strategic Research Council
(SRC) in Finland. The authors also express their deep grati-
tude to CRAI-CIS research group members at Aalto Univer-
sity who helped in experimental setup and provided valuable
insights.
References
Abimannan, S.; El-Alfy, E.-S. M.; Chang, Y.-S.; Hussain, S.;
Shukla, S.; and Satheesh, D. 2023. Ensemble multifeatured
deep learning models and applications: A survey. IEEE Ac-
cess.
Aguilar, G.; and Solorio, T. 2019. From English to code-
switching: Transfer learning with strong morphological
clues. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.05158.
Auer, P. 2013. Code-switching in conversation: Language,
interaction and identity. Routledge.
Barman, U.; Wagner, J.; and Foster, J. 2016. Part-of-speech
tagging of code-mixed social media content: Pipeline, stack-
ing and joint modelling. In Proceedings of the second work-
shop on computational approaches to code switching, 30–
39.
Biemann, C.; Bordag, S.; Heyer, G.; Quasthoff, U.; and
Wolff, C. 2004. Language-independent methods for com-
piling monolingual lexical data. In Computational Linguis-
tics and Intelligent Text Processing: 5th International Con-
ference, CICLing 2004 Seoul, Korea, February 15-21, 2004
Proceedings 5, 217–228. Springer.
Chang, Y.; Wang, X.; Wang, J.; Wu, Y.; Yang, L.; Zhu, K.;
Chen, H.; Yi, X.; Wang, C.; Wang, Y.; et al. 2023. A survey
on evaluation of large language models. ACM Transactions
on Intelligent Systems and Technology.
Choi, Y. J.; Lee, M.; and Lee, S. 2023. Toward a Multi-
lingual Conversational Agent: Challenges and Expectations
of Code-mixing Multilingual Users. In Proceedings of the

===== PAGE 9 =====
2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Sys-
tems, 1–17.
Conneau, A.; Khandelwal, K.; Goyal, N.; Chaudhary, V.;
Wenzek, G.; Guzm´an, F.; Grave, E.; Ott, M.; Zettle-
moyer, L.; and Stoyanov, V. 2019.
Unsupervised cross-
lingual representation learning at scale.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1911.02116.
Devlin, J.; Chang, M.-W.; Lee, K.; and Toutanova, K. 2018.
Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for lan-
guage understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805.
Dinesen, P. T.; and Hooghe, M. 2010. When in Rome, do
as the Romans do: The acculturation of generalized trust
among immigrants in Western Europe.
International Mi-
gration Review, 44(3): 697–727.
Dowlagar, S.; and Mamidi, R. 2021. A pre-trained trans-
former and CNN model with joint language ID and part-
of-speech tagging for code-mixed social-media text.
In
Proceedings of the International Conference on Recent Ad-
vances in Natural Language Processing (RANLP 2021),
367–374.
Drobotowicz, K.; Truong, N. L.; Ylipulli, J.; Gonzalez Tor-
res, A. P.; and Sawhney, N. 2023. Practitioners’ Perspectives
on Inclusion and Civic Empowerment in Finnish Public Sec-
tor AI. In Proceedings of the 11th International Conference
on Communities and Technologies, 108–118.
Ekwere, E. 2022. Language identity and discrimination in a
multicultural society. European Journal of Linguistics, 1(2):
1–12.
Faingold, E. D. 2022. Language Rights for Minorities and
the Right to Code-Switch in the United States Workplace. A
Critical Examination of Language and Community, 1.
Feng, Y.; Li, F.; and Koehn, P. 2022. Toward the limitation
of code-switching in cross-lingual transfer. In Proceedings
of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, 5966–5971.
Gardner-Chloros, P. 2020. Contact and code-switching. The
handbook of language contact, 181–199.
Gautam, D.; Kodali, P.; Gupta, K.; Goel, A.; Shrivastava,
M.; and Kumaraguru, P. 2021.
Comet: Towards code-
mixed translation using parallel monolingual sentences. In
Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop on Computational Ap-
proaches to Linguistic Code-Switching, 47–55.
Goswami, K.; Sarkar, R.; Chakravarthi, B. R.; Fransen, T.;
and McCrae, J. P. 2020. Unsupervised deep language and
dialect identification for short texts. In Proceedings of the
28th International Conference on Computational Linguis-
tics, 1606–1617.
Grootendorst, M. 2022.
BERTopic: Neural topic model-
ing with a class-based TF-IDF procedure. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.05794.
Gumperz, J. J. 1982. Discourse strategies. 1. Cambridge
University Press.
Harwood, A.; Karunasekera, S.; Vanni, M.; Falzon, L.; Pa-
dia, P.; and Silva, A. 2019. Understanding multilingual com-
munities through analysis of code-switching behaviors in so-
cial media discussions. In 2019 IEEE International Confer-
ence on Big Data (Big Data), 2274–2283. IEEE.
Ikeh, M. C. 2023.
Social Media as Tools for Social and
Cultural Integration of Nigerian Migrants in Sweden.
Intke-Hern´andez, M.; et al. 2015.
Migrant stay-at-home
mothers learning to eat and live the Finnish way. Nordic
Journal of Migration Research, 5(2): 75–82.
Krishnan, J.; Anastasopoulos, A.; Purohit, H.; and Rang-
wala, H. 2021. Multilingual Code-Switching for Zero-Shot
Cross-Lingual Intent Prediction and Slot Filling.
In Pro-
ceedings of the 1st Workshop on Multilingual Representa-
tion Learning, 211–223.
Kusumawati, N.; and Prihadi, P. 2023. Conversation Impli-
cature and Code-Mixing in Mata Najwa’s Talk Show Exclu-
sive Episode: Ganjar Pranowo and the World Cup. Inter-
national Journal of Multicultural and Multireligious Under-
standing, 10(5): 419–430.
Lu, S.-E.; Lu, B.-H.; Lu, C.-Y.; and Tsai, R. T.-H. 2023.
Exploring methods for building dialects-Mandarin code-
mixing corpora: A case study in Taiwanese Hokkien. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2301.08937.
Luria, M.; Reig, S.; Tan, X. Z.; Steinfeld, A.; Forlizzi,
J.; and Zimmerman, J. 2019.
Re-Embodiment and Co-
Embodiment: Exploration of social presence for robots and
conversational agents. In Proceedings of the 2019 on De-
signing Interactive Systems Conference, 633–644.
Mabule, D. R. 2015. What is this? Is it code switching, code
mixing or language alternating. Journal of Educational and
Social Research, 5(1): 339–350.
Madianou, M. 2015.
Digital inequality and second-order
disasters: Social media in the Typhoon Haiyan recovery. So-
cial Media+ Society, 1(2): 2056305115603386.
McAuliffe, M.; et al. 2022. World Migration Report 2022.
McEntee-Atalianis, L.; Ateek, M.; and Gardner-Chloros, P.
2023. Multilingual repertoires and identity in social media:
Syrian refugees on Facebook. International Journal of Bilin-
gualism, 27(5): 731–748.
McInnes, L.; Healy, J.; and Astels, S. 2017. hdbscan: Hierar-
chical density based clustering. The Journal of Open Source
Software, 2(11): 205.
McInnes, L.; Healy, J.; Saul, N.; and Großberger, L. 2018.
UMAP: Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection.
Journal of Open Source Software, 3(29).
Milroy, L.; and Muysken, P. 1995. One speaker, two lan-
guages: Cross-disciplinary perspectives on code-switching,
volume 10. Cambridge University Press.
Myers-Scotton, C. 1993. Social motivations for codeswitch-
ing: Evidence from Africa. Oxford University Press.
Ostrowski, A. K.; Zygouras, V.; Park, H. W.; and Breazeal,
C. 2021.
Small group interactions with voice-user inter-
faces: exploring social embodiment, rapport, and engage-
ment. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM/IEEE International
Conference on Human-Robot Interaction, 322–331.
Ponnusamy, P.; Ghias, A.; Yi, Y.; Yao, B.; Guo, C.; and
Sarikaya, R. 2022. Feedback-based self-learning in large-
scale conversational ai agents. AI magazine, 42(4): 43–56.
Poplack, S.; et al. 2000.
The English History of African
American English. Blackwell Oxford.

===== PAGE 10 =====
Rani, P.; McCrae, J. P.; and Fransen, T. 2022. MHE: Code-
Mixed Corpora for Similar Language Identification. In Pro-
ceedings of the Thirteenth Language Resources and Evalu-
ation Conference, 3425–3433.
Schaefer, K. E.; Chen, J. Y.; Szalma, J. L.; and Hancock,
P. A. 2016. A meta-analysis of factors influencing the devel-
opment of trust in automation: Implications for understand-
ing autonomy in future systems. Human factors, 58(3): 377–
400.
St John, O. 2023. Social Inclusion Through Multilingual As-
sistants in Additional Language Learning. Social Inclusion,
11(4): 145–155.
Toribio, A. J. 2001. On the emergence of bilingual code-
switching competence. Bilingualism: language and cogni-
tion, 4(3): 203–231.
Wardhaugh, R.; and Fuller, J. M. 2021. An introduction to
sociolinguistics. John Wiley & Sons.
Weinreich, U. 1953. Language in contact. the Hague, the
Netherlands: Mouton.
Wulandari, A. 2021.
Code Switching and Code Mixing
Study in ˆaC œHitam PutihˆaC Talk Show Program. Vivid:
Journal of Language and Literature, 10(1): 1–5.
Yap, C. E. L.; Lee, J.-J.; and Roto, V. 2021.
How HCI
interprets service design: a systematic literature review.
In Human-Computer Interaction–INTERACT 2021: 18th
IFIP TC 13 International Conference, Bari, Italy, August
30–September 3, 2021, Proceedings, Part II 18, 259–280.
Springer.
Yeasmin, N.; et al. 2020. Immigration in the circumpolar
north: Integration and resilience. Routledge.
Yim, O.; and Cl´ement, R. 2019. “You’re a Juksing”: Ex-
amining Cantonese–English Code-Switching as an Index of
Identity. Journal of Language and Social Psychology, 38(4):
479–495.
Zahera, H. M.; Vitiugin, F.; Sherif, M. A.; Castillo, C.; and
Ngonga Ngomo, A.-C. 2023. Using Pre-Trained Language
Models for Abstractive DBPEDIA Summarization: A Com-
parative Study. In Knowledge Graphs: Semantics, Machine
Learning, and Languages, 19–37. IOS Press.
Zhang, R.; et al. 2023.
Multilingual Large Language
Models Are Not (Yet) Code-Switchers.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.14235.
