
===== PAGE 1 =====
arXiv:2411.08745v4  [cs.CL]  25 Jun 2025
Separating Tongue from Thought: Activation Patching Reveals
Language-Agnostic Concept Representations in Transformers
Clément Dumas12*† Chris Wendler3*†
Veniamin Veselovsky4† Giovanni Monea5† Robert West6
1ENS Paris-Saclay 2Université Paris-Saclay 3Northeastern 4 Princeton 5Cornell 6EPFL
{clement.dumas@ens-paris-saclay.fr, chris.wendler@epfl.ch}
Abstract
A central question in multilingual language
modeling is whether large language models
(LLMs) develop a universal concept represen-
tation, disentangled from specific languages.
In this paper, we address this question by an-
alyzing latent representations (latents) during
a word-translation task in transformer-based
LLMs. We strategically extract latents from a
source translation prompt and insert them into
the forward pass on a target translation prompt.
By doing so, we find that the output language
is encoded in the latent at an earlier layer than
the concept to be translated. Building on this
insight, we conduct two key experiments. First,
we demonstrate that we can change the con-
cept without changing the language and vice
versa through activation patching alone. Sec-
ond, we show that patching with the mean rep-
resentation of a concept across different lan-
guages does not affect the models’ ability to
translate it, but instead improves it. Finally,
we generalize to multi-token generation and
demonstrate that the model can generate natu-
ral language description of those mean repre-
sentations. Our results provide evidence for the
existence of language-agnostic concept repre-
sentations within the investigated models.1
1
Introduction
Most modern large language models (LLMs) are
trained on massive corpora dominated by English
text (Touvron et al., 2023; Dubey et al., 2024;
Radford et al., 2019; Brown et al., 2020; Ope-
nAI, 2023). Despite this imbalanced training, they
*Equal contribution
†Work done while at EPFL
1This work has been previously published under
the title “How Do Llamas Process Multilingual Text?
A Latent Exploration through Activation Patching” at
the ICML 2024 Mechanistic Interpretability Workshop
https://openreview.net/forum?id=0ku2hIm4BS.
Code for reproducing our experiments is available at
https://github.com/Butanium/llm-lang-agnostic
Figure 1: For two given concepts, e.g., BOOK and
LEMON, we construct multiple source prompts which
translate BOOK, and a target prompt for translating from
French to Chinese. Then we extract the residual stream
of the last token of the word to be translated after some
layer j and all subsequent ones from the source prompts
and insert the mean of each layer at the corresponding
positions in the forward pass of the target prompt. The
resulting next token probabilities will concentrate on
the source concept in target language (BOOKZH, i.e., 书)
when patching at layers 0–15, on the target concept in
target language (LEMONZH, 柠檬) for layers 16–31.
achieve remarkable performance across multiple
languages (Shi et al., 2022), raising fundamen-
tal questions about how they process and repre-
sent multilingual information. Understanding these
mechanisms is crucial not only to improve model
performance, but also to identify potential biases
and limitations in cross-lingual processing.
A fundamental question in multilingual lan-
guage modeling is whether LLMs develop univer-
sal concept representations that transcend specific
languages (Wendler et al., 2024; Conneau et al.,
2020b; Chi et al., 2020; Xie et al., 2022; Mousi
et al., 2024). For example, when a model processes
the word “cat” in English and “chat” in French,
does it map these to the same internal represen-
1

===== PAGE 2 =====
tation of the feline concept, or does it maintain
separate language-specific representations? Sev-
eral recent works hint at the existence of language-
agnostic concept representations.
Wendler et al. (2024) found that for simple mul-
tilingual tasks independent of the input and output
language intermediate decodings of concept rep-
resentations using the logit lens (Nostalgebraist,
2020) decode to the English before they decode
to the target language. Additionally, it has been
long observed that instruction and safety tuning
LLMs only on English data generalizes to other
languages (Li et al., 2024; Shaham et al., 2024).
The presence of language-agnostic representation
in the pretrained LLMs would provide an explana-
tion for both of these behaviors.
This provides a unique opportunity for us to dig
deeper and examine how multilingual concepts are
represented and processed within LLMs, poten-
tially revealing insights into language biases and
concept formation. In particular, we are inspired
by recent mechanistic interpretability approaches
based on activation patching (Variengien and Win-
sor, 2023; Ghandeharioun et al., 2024; Chen et al.,
2024a). These approaches are based on the idea
of patching activations from one forward pass into
another while observing the output (c.f. Fig. 2) and
present a simple, yet effective way to inspect the
representations learned and causally understand the
computations performed by LLMs.
Contributions. While prior work has provided
observational evidence for shared semantic spaces
in LLMs, we present the first causal analysis of
how these representations are actively utilized dur-
ing multilingual processing. More specifically, in
this work we aim to understand how transformers
process and represent concepts during translation
tasks, whether language and concept information
can be manipulated independently in the model’s
computations, and, whether models maintain sep-
arate language-specific concept representations or
develop a shared conceptual space. To this end, we
make the following contributions.
1. First, we perform an activation patching anal-
ysis of Llama 2 7B (Touvron et al., 2023). We
demonstrate that the model processes transla-
tion tasks by first resolving output language,
then the concept to be translated.
2. We propose two competing hypotheses about
how transformers solve the translation task
during their forward pass: H1 where language
and concepts are represented independently,
and H2 where they are inherently entangled.
We argue that if language and concepts are in-
dependent (H1), averaging the latent represen-
tation of a concept across languages should
still allow the model to make sense of and
utilize this representation. Conversely, if lan-
guage and concepts are entangled (H2), this
mean representation would be an incoherent
mixture of language-specific concepts that the
model cannot effectively use.
3. To test these hypotheses, we use a novel activa-
tion patching setup depicted in Figure 1 which
forces Llama 2 7B to translate this mean repre-
sentation across languages. We find that using
the mean concept representation across lan-
guages improves Llama 2 7B’s performance
on a word translation task, supporting H1.
4. We show that our observations generalize to a
diverse set of transformer models varying in
size, architecture, and training data, including
Llama 2 70B, Llama 3 8B (Dubey et al., 2024),
Mistral 7B (Jiang et al., 2023), Qwen 1.5
7B (Bai et al., 2023), Aya 23 8B (Aryabumi
et al., 2024) and Gemma 2 2B (Team et al.,
2024).
5. Finally, to support our claim that mean repre-
sentation are usable by the model in a autore-
gressive generation setting, we present a novel
activation patching setup depicted in Figure 5
to show that a model can successfully write a
definition of such a mean representation.
Implications. While prior work has suggested
the existence of shared semantic spaces across lan-
guages through observational methods, our causal
analysis provides the first direct evidence that
LLMs actively utilize language-agnostic concept
representations during text generation. Further-
more, our activation patching methodology estab-
lishes a framework for future causal investigations
of multilingual representations, moving beyond the
limitations of embedding similarity, probing, and
logit lens approaches.
2
Related Work
LLMs have demonstrated remarkable capabilities
in processing multilingual text across languages,
with examples including encoder-only model like
mBERT (Devlin et al., 2018), XLM-R (Conneau
et al., 2020a), and mT5 (Xue et al., 2021) and
decoder-only model like (Aryabumi et al., 2024;
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
Dubey et al., 2024). Studies on encoder-only mod-
els have shown that they develop language-agnostic
representations, explaining their cross-lingual trans-
fer capabilities. The methodology used was em-
bedding similarity analysis (Conneau et al., 2020b;
Libovický et al., 2020; Muller et al., 2021; Mousi
et al., 2024) and probing methods (Choenni and
Shutova, 2020; Pires et al., 2019).
While decoder-only transformers are not primar-
ily designed to develop contextual embedding, but
rather for open-ended text generation, they also
develop cross-lingual generalization, for example,
during safety and instruction tuning (Li et al., 2024;
Chirkova and Nikoulina, 2024). Mechanistic in-
terpretability has led to powerful tools to analyze
the language-agnosticity of these models. Using
neuron analysis Sta´nczak et al. (2022); Chen et al.
(2024b); Cao et al. (2024); Zeng et al. (2024); Tang
et al. (2024) have shown that LLMs develop both
language-agnostic and language-specific neurons.
Wendler et al. (2024); Wu et al. (2024) use the logit
lens (Nostalgebraist, 2020) to perform early de-
coding during the forward pass of both LLMs and
show that, no matter the language or input modality,
the intermediate decodings concentrate on English
before decoding to a specific language in the very
last layers.
While the analyses via embedding similarity,
probing and the logit lens give use valuable in-
sight into the structure of the representation, they
are not causal. Additionally, while the neuron level
analysis studies the causal effects of the neurons,
they do not study the representation themselves.
Our work aims to fill this gap.
A related line of work has explored using defi-
nition generation as a means to evaluate semantic
representations. Noraset et al. (2017) introduced
definition modeling, the task of generating dictio-
nary definitions from word embeddings, as a more
direct evaluation of what semantic information em-
beddings capture. This approach has been extended
to evaluate various types of embeddings (Gardner
et al., 2022; Chang and Chen, 2019). For example,
(Chang and Chen, 2019) demonstrated that contex-
tualized embeddings like ELMo and BERT can be
effectively mapped to definition spaces, revealing
their sense-specific semantic content. In our work,
instead of training a model to generate descriptions
of LLM’s representations, we repurpose the LLM
itself to either translate or define it using activa-
tion patching. Activation patching, introduced by
Meng et al. (2022), has been the main tool used to
draw causal interpretation of LLM representations
(Variengien and Winsor, 2023; Geiger et al., 2022;
Kramár et al., 2024). More recently, Ghandehar-
ioun et al. (2024); Chen et al. (2024a) also show
patching setups in which they can use the model
itself to analyze its own model internal. Inspired by
those methods, we developed two novel patching
experiments supporting the language-agnosicity of
LLMs representation.
Parallel work to ours by Fierro et al. (2025) lever-
ages the mechanistic interpretability toolkit to un-
derstand how factual recall works in multilingual
LLMs as well. Similar to us, they find that the con-
cept to be decoded and its language does not enter
at the same layer into the residual stream, however
in their knowledge association tasks they observe
the opposite order than we do in our translation
task. They also find that large parts of multilingual-
factual recall are handled in a language agnostic
way, despite the investigated models being trained
on a more balanced split of languages than the ones
studied in our paper.
3
Background
Transformers forward pass. When an autore-
gressive decoder-only transformer (Vaswani et al.,
2017; Touvron et al., 2023) with L layers processes
a sequence of input tokens x1, . . . , xn ∈V from a
vocabulary V , each token is initially transformed
into a d-dimensional vector h0
i by an embedding
layer. This first set of vector is the beginning of the
residual stream. Then, for each token position i,
the layer j ∈1, . . . , L updates the residual stream
the following way:
h(j)
i
= h(j−1)
i
+ fj

h(j−1)
1
, . . . , h(j−1)
i

(1)
where fj represents the operations of the j-th layer
(typically self-attention followed by a feedforward
network). Finally, for a m-layer transformer, the
next-token probabilities are obtained via a learned
linear layer followed by a softmax operation map-
ping h(m)
i
to P(xi+1|x1 . . . xi).
Activation patching.
Activation patching is a
causal intervention technique that allows us to un-
derstand how different components of a neural net-
work contribute to its output. The key idea is to run
two forward passes through the network – one on a
source input and one on a target input – and copy
(or “patch”) activations from specific positions and
layers of the source forward pass into the target
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
forward pass. By observing how these interven-
tions affect the model’s output, we can understand
what information is encoded in different parts of
the network and how it is used.
More formally, given a source input S and target
input T, we can patch activations at position i, i′
and layer j by setting h(j)
i (T) = h(j)
i′ (S) during
the target forward pass, where h(j)
i
represents the
activation at position i and layer j. The change
in the model’s output distribution provides evi-
dence about what information was contained in
the patched activation.
Concepts.
We use capitalization to denote an
abstract concept, (e.g. CAT). Let C be an abstract
concept, then we denote Cℓits language-specific
version.
Further, we define w(Cℓ) as the set
of words expressing the abstract concept C
in language ℓ. For example, if C = CAT and
ℓ= EN we have w(Cℓ) =
{“cat”} and sim-
ilarly w(C DE)
=
{“Katze”, “Kater”}.
Note
that we talk about words for the sake of sim-
plicity. However, on a technical level w refers
to the set of starting tokens of these words
(e.g.
{“Katze”, “Kat”}).
Therefore, when we
track different sets of tokens W, (e.g.
W
∈
{w(C IT
1 ), w(C ZH
1 ), w(C IT
2 ), w(C ZH
2 ), w(C EN
1 )
∪
w(C EN
2 )} = W), we ensure that there is no token
in common between any pair of W1, W2 ∈W
with W1 ̸= W2.
Prompt design.
We use the same translation
prompt template as (Wendler et al., 2024) that we
denote TP(input language, output language, con-
cept). For example, TP(EN, FR, CLOUD) could be:
English: “computer” - Français: “ordinateur”
...
English: “ant” - Français: “fourmi”
English: “cloud” - Français: “
Here the task is to translate w(CLOUDEN)
=
{“cloud”} into w(CLOUDFR) = {“nuage”}.
More formally, for a given concept C, in-
put language ℓ(in), and output language ℓ(out),
we construct a few-shot translation prompt
TP(ℓ(in), ℓ(out), C).
This prompt contains k ex-
amples2 of single-word translations of concepts
C1, . . . , Ck from ℓ(in) to ℓ(out), concluding with the
model being tasked to translate C from ℓ(in) to
ℓ(out). Using Cℓ(in) as a shortcut for v ∈w(Cℓ(in)),
TP(ℓ(in), ℓ(out), C) looks like:
2in our study we used k = 5
ℓ(in): “Cℓ(in)
1
” - ℓ(out): “Cℓ(out)
1
”
...
ℓ(in): “Cℓ(in)
k
” - ℓ(out): “Cℓ(out)
k
”
ℓ(in): “Cℓ(in)” - ℓ(out): “
We
denote
TPconcept(ℓ(in), ℓ(out), C)
as
TP(ℓ(in), ℓ(out), C)
cut
at
the
last
token
of
Cℓ(in).
For example, in our previous example,
TPconcept(EN, FR, CLOUD) would be:
English: “computer” - Français: “ordinateur”
...
English: “ant” - Français: “fourmi”
English: “cloud
We expect that the last token of such prompts is
where the model stores its latent representation of
Cℓ(in).
Importantly, whether the model correctly an-
swers TP is determined by its next token prediction.
In our prompt example, the next token predicted
should be “nu”, the first token of “nuage”. Thus,
we can track P(Cℓ)3, i.e., the probability of the
concept C occurring in language ℓ, by simply sum-
ming up the probabilities of all starting tokens of
w(Cℓ) in the next-token distribution.
We improve upon the construction of Wendler
et al. (2024) by considering all the possible ex-
pressions of C in ℓusing BabelNet (Navigli et al.,
2021), instead of GPT-4 translations, when com-
puting P(Cℓ). This allows us to capture many
possible translations, instead of one. For exam-
ple, “commerce”, “magasin” and “boutique” are
all valid words for SHOPFR.
4
Exploratory analysis with patching
Problem statement.
We aim to understand
whether language and concept information can vary
independently during Llama-2’s forward pass when
processing a multilingual prompt. For example, a
representation of Cℓof the form zCℓ= zC + zℓ,
in which zC ∈U, zℓ∈U⊥and U ⊕U⊥= Rd
is a decomposition of Rd into a subspace U and
its orthogonal complement U⊥, would allow for
language and concept information to vary inde-
pendently: language can be varied by changing
zℓ∈U⊥and concept by changing zC ∈U. Con-
versely, if language and concept information were
3We use simplified notation P(Cℓ) rather than P(Cℓ|TP)
throughout. While the conditional notation would be more
precise for the initial case, our patching experiments involve
multiple conditioning factors (target prompt, source prompt,
patching configuration, layer) that would make the full nota-
tion unwieldy. We therefore adopt this simplified notation for
clarity.
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
Figure 2: For two given concepts, e.g., BOOK and
LEMON, we construct a source prompt for translating
BOOK from German to Italian, and a target prompt for
translating LEMON from French to Chinese. Then we ex-
tract the residual stream of the last token at a single layer
j from the source prompt and insert it at the correspond-
ing position and layer in the forward pass of the target
prompt. The resulting next token probabilities will con-
centrate on the target concept in the target language
(LEMONZH, i.e., 柠檬) when patching at layers 0–11,
on the target concept in the source language (LEMONIT,
“limone”) for layers 12–16, and on the source concept in
the source language (BOOKIT, “libro”) for layers 17–31.
entangled, a decomposition like this should not ex-
ist: varying the language would mean varying the
concept and vice versa.
4.1
Experimental design
We start our analysis with an exploratory experi-
ment on Llama 2 7B (Touvron et al., 2023). We
use 5-shots translation prompts to create paired
source S = TP(ℓ(in)
S , ℓ(out)
S
, CS) and target prompt
T = TP(ℓ(in)
T , ℓ(out)
T
, CT ) datasets with different
concept, input languages and output languages4. If
not mentioned otherwise, ℓS and ℓT refer to the
output language of S and T.
Similar to (Variengien and Winsor, 2023), we
would like to infer at which layers the output lan-
guage and the concept enter the residual stream
h(j)
nT (T) respectively and whether they can vary
independently for our task. In order to investi-
gate this question, we perform the experiment de-
picted in Figure 2. For each transformer block fj
we create two parallel forward passes, one pro-
cessing the source prompt S which tokens are
(s1, . . . , snS) and one processing the target prompt
T = (t1, . . . , tnT ). While doing so, we extract
the residual stream of the last token of the source
4See details in Appendix B
prompt after layer j, h(j)
nS(S), and insert it at the
same layer at position nT in the forward pass of the
target prompt, i.e., by setting h(j)
nT (T) = h(j)
nS(S)
and subsequently completing the altered forward
pass. From the resulting next token distribution, we
compute P(CℓS
S ), P(CℓT
S ), P(CℓS
T ), and P(CℓT
T ).
4.2
Results
In this experiment, we perform the patching at one
layer at a time and report the probability that is as-
signed to P(CℓS
S ), P(CℓT
S ), P(CℓS
T ), and P(CℓT
T ).
As a result we obtain Figure 3 in which we report
means and 95% confidence interval over 200 exam-
ples.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
src it
src zh
tgt it
tgt zh
src + tgt en
Figure 3: Our first patching experiment with a DE to
IT source prompt and a FR to ZH target prompt with
different concepts. The x-axis shows at which layer
the patching was performed and the y-axis shows the
probability of predicting the correct concept in language
ℓ(see legend). In the legend, the prefix “src” stands
for source and “tgt” for target concept. The orange
dashed line and blue dash-dotted line correspond to
the mean accuracy on source and target prompt. We
report means and 95% Gaussian confidence intervals
computed over 200 source, target prompt pairs featuring
41 source concepts and 38 target concepts.
Interpretation. We observe the following pattern
while patching at different layers (see Figure 3):
• Layers 0–11: Target concept decoded in target
language, resulting in large P(C ZH
T ).
• Layers 12–16: Target concept decoded in
source language, resulting in large P(C IT
T ).
• Layers 16–31: Source concept decoded in
source language, resulting in large P(C IT
S ).
This pattern suggests that the model first com-
putes the output language: from layer 12 onwards,
we decode in the source output language. This in-
dicates that up until that layer, the need to decode
to ℓ(out) is being encoded in the residual stream
and subsequently remains unchanged. For exam-
ple, this could be achieved by the model computing
a function vector zℓ(out) (Todd et al., 2023). If this
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
hypothesis is correct, patching at layer 12 would
overwrite zℓ(out)
T
with zℓ(out)
S
. The green spike be-
tween layer 12 and 16 indicates that at those layer,
the concept is not yet represented, so the model
keep outputing the target concept but in the source
language.
In later layers, the model determines the concept:
from layer 16 onwards, the source concept is de-
coded. This suggests that zCℓ(out)
T
is overwritten at
layer 16.5
Hypotheses. We are left with two hypotheses com-
patible with these results:
• H1: Concept and language are represented
independently. When doing the translation,
the model first computes ℓ(out) from context,
and then identifies C. In the last layers, it then
maps C to the first token of w(Cℓ(out)).
• H2: The representation of a concept is always
entangled with its language. When doing the
translation, the model first computes ℓ(out),
then computes ℓ(in) and Cℓ(in) from its context
and solves the language-pair-specific transla-
tion task of mapping Cℓ(in) to Cℓ(out).
5
Ruling out hypotheses
Next, we run additional experiments to (1) provide
further evidence that we are either in H1 or H2 and
(2) to disambiguate whether we are in H1 or H2
(3) to show that our findings hold for other models.
Further evidence experiment. In the experiments
in Sec. 4 we did not observe source concept in tar-
get language. However, both H1 and H2 would
allow for that to happen via patching in the right
way. Therefore, in this experiment, instead of over-
writing the residual stream at the last token of the
prompt, we overwrite them at the last token of
the word to be translated. In order to do that, for
the source prompt, we use TPconcept instead of TP
(S = TPconcept(ℓ(in)
S , ℓ(out)
S
, CS)). This means that
5In Appendix A, we collected additional experimental re-
sults investigating the right part of Figure 3 more deeply and
in Appendix C the left part. For the right part, we use the
patchscope lens (Ghandeharioun et al., 2024) to investigate
from which layer it is possible to decode the source concept
in App. Figure 7. The results of both experiments agree: from
layer 16 it is possible to decode the source concept in source
language. For the left part, we experiment with randomized
source prompts and different prompting templates in between
source and target prompt in App. Figure 8. We find that indeed
before layer 11 there is no translation task specific information
in the residual stream, only prompt-template specific informa-
tion.
we collect the activations at the last token of C
ℓ(in)
S
S
.
Let ρT denote the position of that token in the tar-
get prompt. Since the concept information seems to
enter via multiple layers (16-20) into the latent of
the last token, we overwrite the latent correspond-
ing to the token at position ρT at layer j and all
subsequent ones. By patching in this way in both
H1 and H2 we would expect to see large P(CℓT
S ).
Formally, we patch by setting h(j)
ρT (T)
=
h(j)
−1(S), . . . , h(L)
ρT (T) = h(L)
−1 (S)6.
Disambiguation experiment. Both H1 and H2
compute w(CℓT
S ) but in different ways. In H1 one
decoding circuit per output language is required in
order to compute the expression for the concept CS
in language ℓT . In contrast, in H2 one translation
circuit per input-output language pair is required
to map the entangled C
ℓ(in)
S
S
to C
ℓ(out)
T
S
. Therefore,
in order to disambiguate the two, we construct a
patching experiment that should work under H1,
but fail under H2.
In order to do so, instead of patching the latent
containing C
ℓ(in)
S
S
from a single source forward pass,
we create multiple source prompts with the same
concept CS but in different input languages ℓ(in)
S1 ̸=
. . . ̸= ℓ(in)
Sk and output languages ℓ(out)
S1
̸= . . . ̸=
ℓ(out)
Sk
and patch by setting
h(α)
ρT (T) = 1
k
k
X
i=1
h(α)
−1 (Si),
for α ∈j, . . . , m. Let Ci = C
ℓ(in)
Si
S
, under H1, tak-
ing the mean of several language-specific concept
representations should keep the concept informa-
tion intact, since for all i, zCi = zCS:
1
k
k
X
i=1
zCi = zCS + 1
k
k
X
i=1
zℓ(in)
Si
.
Therefore, we’d expect high P(CℓT
S ) in this case.
However, under H2, in which zCi cannot be dis-
entangled, this mean representation may not cor-
respond to a well-defined concept. Additionally,
the interference between multiple input languages
should cause difficulties for the language-pair-
specific translation, which should result in a drop
in P(CℓT
S ).
6Note that we use Python indexing, where -1 denotes the
last token.
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
Results. In the first experiment, we use the same
languages as above and in the second one we used
DE, NL, ZH, ES, RU as input and IT, FI, ES, RU, KO
as output languages for the source prompts and FR
to ZH for the target prompt.
In Figure 4 we observe that in both experiments,
we obtain very high probability for the source con-
cept in the target language P(C ZH
S ) from layers 0
to 15, i.e., exactly until the latents at the last token
stop attending to the last concept-token.
Therefore, Figure 4 (a) supports that we are in-
deed either in H1 or H2, since as planned we suc-
cessfully decode source concepts in the target lan-
guage P(C ZH
S ) from layers 0 to 15. Conversely,
if we were not able to decode source concept in
target language in this way this would have spoken
against both H1 and H2.
Additionally, Figure 4 (b) supports that we are
in H1 and not in H2 because patching in the mean
keeps P(C ZH
S ) intact and even increases it. There-
fore, instead of observing interference between the
different language-entangled concepts as would
have been predicted by H2, we observe a concept-
denoising effect by averaging multiple language-
agnostic concept representations which only makes
sense under H1. Taking the mean over concept rep-
resentations corresponding to different input lan-
guages seems to act like a majority voting mecha-
nism resulting in an increase in P(C ZH
S ). 7
Other models. In Appendix D we perform the ex-
periments from Sec. 4 and Sec. 5 on several other
models, varying in size, training data and architec-
ture namely, Mistral 7B (Jiang et al., 2023), Llama
3 8B (Dubey et al., 2024), Qwen 1.5 7B (Bai et al.,
2023), Llama 2 70B, and Aya 23 8B (Aryabumi
et al., 2024) which was specifically trained to be
multilingual. We observe the same improvement
when we take the mean of a concept across lan-
guages for all these models, suggesting that they
are all operating under H1 and use some language-
agnostic concept representation.
6
Generating descriptions for latents
We just showed that LLMs can effectively trans-
late concept representations averaged across mul-
tiple languages, providing evidence for language-
agnostic concept representations. In this section,
7Conversely, e.g., averaging over different translation
prompt contexts but while keeping the input and output lan-
guage fixed does not lead to an increase in P(C ZH
S ) (see
App. Figure 11,12 (b)).
(a) Single source prompt
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
src zh
tgt zh
src + tgt en
(b) Mean over source prompts
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
src zh
tgt zh
src + tgt en
Figure 4: Here we use different input languages (DE,
FR), different concepts, different output languages (IT,
ZH) in (a). In (b) we use multiple source input languages
DE, NL, ZH, ES, RU and source output languages IT, FI,
ES, RU, KO. We patch at the last token of the concept-
word at all layers from j to 31. In (a) we patch latents
from the single source prompt in (b) we patch the mean
of the latents over the source prompts. For each of the
plots, the x-axis shows at which layer the patching was
performed during the forward pass on the target prompt
and the y-axis shows the probability of predicting the
correct concept in language ℓ(see legend). The prefix
“src” stands for source and “tgt” for target concept. We
report means and 95% Gaussian confidence intervals
computed over a dataset of size 200.
we explore whether these mean representations,
which theoretically capture language-independent
concepts, can be described by the model in natu-
ral language as effectively as concepts expressed
in a single language. This approach builds on the
definition modeling paradigm (Noraset et al., 2017;
Mickus et al., 2022; Chang and Chen, 2019; Gard-
ner et al., 2022), which uses natural language gen-
eration as a transparent evaluation of semantic rep-
resentations.
6.1
Definition prompt
In order to do that, we introduce a new prompt
template that tasks the model to describe a concept
in natural language. More precisely, given a con-
cept C and a language ℓ, we construct a few shot
definition prompt DP(ℓ, C) of the form:
“Cℓ
1” : “Dℓ
1”
...
“Cℓ” : “
where Cℓ
1, . . . , Cℓ
n are concepts in language ℓand
Dℓ
1, . . . , Dℓ
n are their descriptions in language ℓ.
We denote DPconcept(ℓ, C) the prompt template
that ends at the last token of Cℓ. For example,
DPconcept(EN, ANT) could be:
“apple” : “Fruit with red or yellow or green skin”
...
“ant
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
For each language, we constructed a definition
dataset using the first concept in BabelNet (Nav-
igli et al., 2021) associated with each of the 200
picturable words from the Basic English word list
from Wikipedia8. For each concept, BabelNet pro-
vides several definitions in different languages.
6.2
Patching setup
For languages ℓ1
S, . . . , ℓn
S and ℓT , and concepts
CS ̸= CT , we construct a target prompt T =
DP(ℓT , CT ) and two sets S of source prompts:
• From translations: for each language ℓi
S we
pick an input language ℓi
(in) and choose
Strans = {TPconcept(ℓi
(in), ℓi
S, CS)}i∈{1,...,n}.
• From definitions: we choose
Sdef = {DPconcept(ℓi
S, CS)}i∈{1,...,n}.
Then, to generate a definition of CS in language
ℓT , for all layers, we patch the latents of the last
token averaged over the source prompts from S
to the last token of CT in the target prompt and
let the model generate the definition as depicted in
Figure 5. More formally, we patch by setting
h(j)
ρT (T) = 1
n
n
X
i=1
h(j)
−1(Si)
for j ∈{1, . . . , m} and ρT the position of the last
token of CT in the target prompt.
Figure 5: Illustration of the patching setup for the defi-
nition prompt experiment. We patch the latents of the
last token of the source prompts from S to the last token
of CT in the target prompt.
8https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Appendix:
Basic_English_word_list#Things_-_200_picturable_
words
6.3
Experiment
To compare the quality of the definitions of CS
generated by the model in our experiment, we use
the following baselines:
• Ground truth: We use a random definition
from BabelNet.
• Prompting: We use the definition gener-
ated by the model when prompted with
DP(ℓT , CS).
• Word patching: We replace CℓT
T with C
ℓj
S
S for
a random j ∈{1, . . . , n} and let the model
generate the definition. In this setting, the
model is tasked to generate a definition of a
word in a language different from the target
prompt’s language.
• Repeat word: We use CℓT
S as the definition.
To
evaluate
the
different
definitions,
we
use
the
sentence-transformers
li-
brary (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019) to run
paraphrase-multilingual-mpnet-base-v29, a
semantic similarity model distilled from (Song
et al., 2020) using the methods from (Reimers
and Gurevych, 2020). To assess the quality of the
generated definition, we compute the similarity
score between embeddings of the definition and the
mean embedding of the ground truth definitions10.
6.4
Results
We report the mean similarity score between the
definition and the mean embedding of the ground
truth definitions for LLama 2 7B in Figure 6. To
give an idea of the scale of the similarity scores,
we also report the mean similarity between the
definition embedding and the embeddings of the
definitions of the other concepts in the dataset.
We find that patching concept representations
from one language to another allows the model to
generate high-quality definitions, comparable to or
better than direct prompting. The fact that patch-
ing mean representations across multiple source
languages leads to slightly better results suggests
that the model’s concept representations are indeed
language-agnostic – if they were language-specific,
averaging across languages would likely degrade
9https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/
paraphrase-multilingual-mpnet-base-v2
10To be able to compare the score of the generated definition
with the ground truth baseline, we compute its similarity score
with the mean embedding of the other ground truth definitions
- excluding the one that was randomly chosen as the ground
truth baseline
11For some concepts and languages, BabelNet does not
provide any definition.
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Mean similarity
Target: English (61 concepts)
Target: Chinese (38 concepts)
Target: French (29 concepts)
Similarity with mean
ground truth embedding
Similarity with
other concepts
Multi-Source Translation
Multi-Source Definition
Single-Source Translation
Single-Source Definition
Word Patching
Prompting
Repeat Word
Figure 6: Mean similarity between the definition and the mean embedding of the ground truth definitions, as well as
the mean similarity between the definition embedding and the embeddings of the definitions of the other concepts in
the dataset. The results are presented for three target languages: English (with source languages Italian, Finnish,
Spanish, Korean, and input languages for source translations: German, Dutch, Chinese, Russian), Chinese (using
the same languages), and French (with source languages Korean, Japanese, Estonian, Finnish and English as input
language for source translations). We report means and 95% Gaussian confidence intervals computed over a dataset
of various sizes11.
performance. This aligns with our translation ex-
periment findings and adds another perspective on
how LLMs process multilingual information.
Additionally, the comparable performance be-
tween patching from definitions and translations
indicates that the model builds similar concept rep-
resentations regardless of whether it processes a
translation or definition prompt. This suggests a
unified internal representation of concepts that gen-
eralizes across different types of language tasks.
Other models. In Appendix D.3 we show that
those findings generalize to other models and lan-
guages.
7
Conclusion
In this paper, we showed that transformers use
language-agnostic latent representations of con-
cepts when processing word-level translation
prompts. We achieved this by patching latents
between parallel forward passes for translation
prompts that differed in both input and output
languages, as well as in the specific concepts be-
ing translated. Our main finding was that transla-
tion performance improves when the transformer
is forced to translate a concept representation av-
eraged across multiple languages. This finding
speaks for language-agnostic concept representa-
tions. As we argued, for language-agnostic concept
representations, taking the mean representation of
a concept across languages should not impair the
LLM’s ability to translate this concept. In con-
trast, for language-specific ones, taking the mean
should result in interference between the different
language-specific versions of the concept. Thus,
our results are consistent with findings from pre-
vious work (Wendler et al., 2024) indicating that
Llama-2 represents concepts in a concept space
independent of the language of the prompt. Our
work also provides evidence that findings from
BERT models (Conneau et al., 2020b; Pires et al.,
2019) generalize to a wide range of decoder-only
transformers. Our findings open several important
avenues for future research. Understanding these
disentangled representations could improve cross-
lingual transfer learning and reduce the computa-
tional costs of multilingual training by leveraging
shared concept spaces more efficiently. Moreover,
our results provide mechanistic insights into the
root causes of Western cultural biases in multilin-
gual LLMs, suggesting that biases may propagate
through the shared concept space. We hope these
contributions will guide efforts to build more con-
trollable, efficient, and culturally-aware multilin-
gual language models.
Limitations
In this work, we studied how transformers repre-
sent concepts when processing multilingual text.
However, we only considered very simple concepts,
maybe some more complex concepts would have
shown a different behavior. Also, we did not study
language-specific concepts like “Waldeinsamkeit”,
“The feeling of solitude and connectedness to na-
ture when being alone in the woods.”. It would be
interesting to see how those are represented.
Furthermore, more fine-grained probing will be
required to determine to which degree transformers
are able to specialize a concept to a language and
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
whether concepts and languages are entangled in
more subtle ways.
Acknowledgment
We would like to thank the team working on
NNsight (Fiotto-Kaufman et al., 2024) which is
the python package we used to implement all our
experiments. We thank Hannes Wendler for multi-
ple fruitful discussions.
References
Viraat Aryabumi, John Dang, Dwarak Talupuru,
Saurabh Dash, David Cairuz, Hangyu Lin, Bharat
Venkitesh, Madeline Smith, Jon Ander Campos,
Yi Chern Tan, Kelly Marchisio, Max Bartolo, Se-
bastian Ruder, Acyr Locatelli, Julia Kreutzer, Nick
Frosst, Aidan Gomez, Phil Blunsom, Marzieh Fadaee,
Ahmet Üstün, and Sara Hooker. 2024.
Aya 23:
Open weight releases to further multilingual progress.
Preprint, arXiv:2405.15032.
Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Yunfei Chu, Zeyu Cui, Kai Dang,
Xiaodong Deng, Yang Fan, Wenbin Ge, Yu Han, Fei
Huang, Binyuan Hui, Luo Ji, Mei Li, Junyang Lin,
Runji Lin, Dayiheng Liu, Gao Liu, Chengqiang Lu,
Keming Lu, Jianxin Ma, Rui Men, Xingzhang Ren,
Xuancheng Ren, Chuanqi Tan, Sinan Tan, Jianhong
Tu, Peng Wang, Shijie Wang, Wei Wang, Shengguang
Wu, Benfeng Xu, Jin Xu, An Yang, Hao Yang, Jian
Yang, Shusheng Yang, Yang Yao, Bowen Yu, Hongyi
Yuan, Zheng Yuan, Jianwei Zhang, Xingxuan Zhang,
Yichang Zhang, Zhenru Zhang, Chang Zhou, Jin-
gren Zhou, Xiaohuan Zhou, and Tianhang Zhu. 2023.
Qwen technical report. Preprint, arXiv:2309.16609.
Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot
learners. Advances in neural information processing
systems, 33:1877–1901.
Pengfei Cao, Yuheng Chen, Zhuoran Jin, Yubo Chen,
Kang Liu, and Jun Zhao. 2024. One mind, many
tongues: A deep dive into language-agnostic knowl-
edge neurons in large language models.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2411.17401.
Ting-Yun Chang and Yun-Nung Chen. 2019. What does
this word mean? explaining contextualized embed-
dings with natural language definition. In Proceed-
ings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing and the 9th Inter-
national Joint Conference on Natural Language Pro-
cessing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 6064–6070.
Haozhe Chen, Carl Vondrick, and Chengzhi Mao. 2024a.
Selfie: Self-interpretation of large language model
embeddings. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.10949.
Yuheng Chen, Pengfei Cao, Yubo Chen, Kang Liu, and
Jun Zhao. 2024b. Journey to the center of the knowl-
edge neurons: Discoveries of language-independent
knowledge neurons and degenerate knowledge neu-
rons. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Ar-
tificial Intelligence, volume 38, pages 17817–17825.
Ethan A. Chi, John Hewitt, and Christopher D. Manning.
2020. Finding universal grammatical relations in
multilingual bert. Preprint, arXiv:2005.04511.
Nadezhda Chirkova and Vassilina Nikoulina. 2024.
Zero-shot cross-lingual transfer in instruction tun-
ing of large language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.14778.
Rochelle Choenni and Ekaterina Shutova. 2020. What
does it mean to be language-agnostic? probing multi-
lingual sentence encoders for typological properties.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.12862.
Alexis Conneau, Kartikay Khandelwal, Naman Goyal,
Vishrav Chaudhary, Guillaume Wenzek, Francisco
Guzmán, Edouard Grave, Myle Ott, Luke Zettle-
moyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2020a.
Unsuper-
vised cross-lingual representation learning at scale.
Preprint, arXiv:1911.02116.
Alexis Conneau, Shijie Wu, Haoran Li, Luke Zettle-
moyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2020b.
Emerging
cross-lingual structure in pretrained language mod-
els. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages
6022–6034.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2018. Bert: Pre-training of deep
bidirectional transformers for language understand-
ing. Preprint, arXiv:1810.04805.
Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey,
Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman,
Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela
Fan, et al. 2024. The llama 3 herd of models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2407.21783.
Constanza Fierro, Negar Foroutan, Desmond Elliott,
and Anders Søgaard. 2025. How do multilingual
language models remember facts?
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.14387.
Jaden Fiotto-Kaufman, Alexander R Loftus, Eric Todd,
Jannik Brinkmann, Caden Juang, Koyena Pal, Can
Rager, Aaron Mueller, Samuel Marks, Arnab Sen
Sharma, et al. 2024. Nnsight and ndif: Democra-
tizing access to foundation model internals. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2407.14561.
Noah Gardner, Hafiz Khan, and Chih-Cheng Hung.
2022. Definition modeling: literature review and
dataset analysis.
Applied Computing and Intelli-
gence, 2(1):83–98.
Atticus Geiger, Zhengxuan Wu, Hanson Lu, Josh
Rozner, Elisa Kreiss, Thomas Icard, Noah Good-
man, and Christopher Potts. 2022. Inducing causal
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
structure for interpretable neural networks. In In-
ternational Conference on Machine Learning, pages
7324–7338. PMLR.
Asma Ghandeharioun, Avi Caciularu, Adam Pearce,
Lucas Dixon, and Mor Geva. 2024.
Patchscope:
A unifying framework for inspecting hidden rep-
resentations of language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.06102.
Albert Q Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Men-
sch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego
de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guil-
laume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, et al. 2023. Mistral
7B. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06825.
János Kramár, Tom Lieberum, Rohin Shah, and Neel
Nanda. 2024. Atp*: An efficient and scalable method
for localizing llm behaviour to components. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.00745.
Xiaochen Li, Zheng Xin Yong, and Stephen Bach. 2024.
Preference tuning for toxicity mitigation generalizes
across languages. In Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024, pages
13422–13440.
Jindˇrich Libovický, Rudolf Rosa, and Alexander
Fraser. 2020.
On the language neutrality of pre-
trained multilingual representations. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2004.05160.
Kevin Meng, David Bau, Alex Andonian, and Yonatan
Belinkov. 2022. Locating and editing factual associ-
ations in gpt. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, 35:17359–17372.
Timothee Mickus, Kees Van Deemter, Mathieu Con-
stant, and Denis Paperno. 2022. Semeval-2022 task
1: Codwoe–comparing dictionaries and word embed-
dings. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.13858.
Basel Mousi, Nadir Durrani, Fahim Dalvi, Majd
Hawasly, and Ahmed Abdelali. 2024.
Exploring
alignment in shared cross-lingual spaces.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2405.14535.
Benjamin Muller, Yanai Elazar, Benoît Sagot, and
Djamé Seddah. 2021. First align, then predict: Un-
derstanding the cross-lingual ability of multilingual
bert. In Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the Eu-
ropean Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Main Volume, pages 2214–2231.
Roberto Navigli, Michele Bevilacqua, Simone Conia,
Dario Montagnini, Francesco Cecconi, et al. 2021.
Ten years of babelnet: A survey. In IJCAI, pages
4559–4567. International Joint Conferences on Arti-
ficial Intelligence Organization.
Thanapon Noraset, Chen Liang, Larry Birnbaum, and
Doug Downey. 2017. Definition modeling: Learning
to define word embeddings in natural language. In
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, volume 31.
Nostalgebraist. 2020. Interpreting gpt: The logit lens.
LessWrong.
OpenAI. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.17548.
Telmo Pires, Eva Schlinger, and Dan Garrette. 2019.
How multilingual is multilingual bert?
Preprint,
arXiv:1906.01502.
Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan,
Dario Amodei, Ilya Sutskever, et al. 2019. Language
models are unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI
blog, 1(8):9.
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-bert:
Sentence embeddings using siamese bert-networks.
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing. Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics.
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2020.
Making
monolingual sentence embeddings multilingual us-
ing knowledge distillation. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Uri Shaham, Jonathan Herzig, Roee Aharoni, Idan
Szpektor, Reut Tsarfaty, and Matan Eyal. 2024. Mul-
tilingual instruction tuning with just a pinch of multi-
linguality. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.01854.
Freda Shi, Mirac Suzgun, Markus Freitag, Xuezhi Wang,
Suraj Srivats, Soroush Vosoughi, Hyung Won Chung,
Yi Tay, Sebastian Ruder, Denny Zhou, Dipanjan
Das, and Jason Wei. 2022. Language models are
multilingual chain-of-thought reasoners. Preprint,
arXiv:2210.03057.
Kaitao Song, Xu Tan, Tao Qin, Jianfeng Lu, and Tie-
Yan Liu. 2020.
Mpnet: Masked and permuted
pre-training for language understanding. Preprint,
arXiv:2004.09297.
Karolina Sta´nczak, Edoardo Ponti, Lucas Torroba Hen-
nigen, Ryan Cotterell, and Isabelle Augenstein. 2022.
Same neurons, different languages: Probing mor-
phosyntax in multilingual pre-trained models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2205.02023.
Tianyi Tang, Wenyang Luo, Haoyang Huang, Dong-
dong Zhang, Xiaolei Wang, Xin Zhao, Furu Wei,
and Ji-Rong Wen. 2024. Language-specific neurons:
The key to multilingual capabilities in large language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.16438.
Gemma Team, Morgane Riviere, Shreya Pathak,
Pier Giuseppe Sessa, Cassidy Hardin, Surya Bhupati-
raju, Léonard Hussenot, Thomas Mesnard, Bobak
Shahriari, Alexandre Ramé, Johan Ferret, Peter
Liu, Pouya Tafti, Abe Friesen, Michelle Casbon,
Sabela Ramos, Ravin Kumar, Charline Le Lan,
Sammy Jerome, Anton Tsitsulin, Nino Vieillard,
Piotr Stanczyk, Sertan Girgin, Nikola Momchev,
Matt Hoffman, Shantanu Thakoor, Jean-Bastien Grill,
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
Behnam Neyshabur, Olivier Bachem, Alanna Wal-
ton, Aliaksei Severyn, Alicia Parrish, Aliya Ah-
mad, Allen Hutchison, Alvin Abdagic, Amanda
Carl, Amy Shen, Andy Brock, Andy Coenen, An-
thony Laforge, Antonia Paterson, Ben Bastian, Bilal
Piot, Bo Wu, Brandon Royal, Charlie Chen, Chintu
Kumar, Chris Perry, Chris Welty, Christopher A.
Choquette-Choo, Danila Sinopalnikov, David Wein-
berger, Dimple Vijaykumar, Dominika Rogozi´nska,
Dustin Herbison, Elisa Bandy, Emma Wang, Eric
Noland, Erica Moreira, Evan Senter, Evgenii Elty-
shev, Francesco Visin, Gabriel Rasskin, Gary Wei,
Glenn Cameron, Gus Martins, Hadi Hashemi, Hanna
Klimczak-Pluci´nska, Harleen Batra, Harsh Dhand,
Ivan Nardini, Jacinda Mein, Jack Zhou, James Svens-
son, Jeff Stanway, Jetha Chan, Jin Peng Zhou, Joana
Carrasqueira, Joana Iljazi, Jocelyn Becker, Joe Fer-
nandez, Joost van Amersfoort, Josh Gordon, Josh
Lipschultz, Josh Newlan, Ju yeong Ji, Kareem Mo-
hamed, Kartikeya Badola, Kat Black, Katie Mil-
lican, Keelin McDonell, Kelvin Nguyen, Kiranbir
Sodhia, Kish Greene, Lars Lowe Sjoesund, Lau-
ren Usui, Laurent Sifre, Lena Heuermann, Leti-
cia Lago, Lilly McNealus, Livio Baldini Soares,
Logan Kilpatrick, Lucas Dixon, Luciano Martins,
Machel Reid, Manvinder Singh, Mark Iverson, Mar-
tin Görner, Mat Velloso, Mateo Wirth, Matt Davi-
dow, Matt Miller, Matthew Rahtz, Matthew Watson,
Meg Risdal, Mehran Kazemi, Michael Moynihan,
Ming Zhang, Minsuk Kahng, Minwoo Park, Mofi
Rahman, Mohit Khatwani, Natalie Dao, Nenshad
Bardoliwalla, Nesh Devanathan, Neta Dumai, Nilay
Chauhan, Oscar Wahltinez, Pankil Botarda, Parker
Barnes, Paul Barham, Paul Michel, Pengchong
Jin, Petko Georgiev, Phil Culliton, Pradeep Kup-
pala, Ramona Comanescu, Ramona Merhej, Reena
Jana, Reza Ardeshir Rokni, Rishabh Agarwal, Ryan
Mullins, Samaneh Saadat, Sara Mc Carthy, Sarah
Cogan, Sarah Perrin, Sébastien M. R. Arnold, Se-
bastian Krause, Shengyang Dai, Shruti Garg, Shruti
Sheth, Sue Ronstrom, Susan Chan, Timothy Jor-
dan, Ting Yu, Tom Eccles, Tom Hennigan, Tomas
Kocisky, Tulsee Doshi, Vihan Jain, Vikas Yadav,
Vilobh Meshram, Vishal Dharmadhikari, Warren
Barkley, Wei Wei, Wenming Ye, Woohyun Han,
Woosuk Kwon, Xiang Xu, Zhe Shen, Zhitao Gong,
Zichuan Wei, Victor Cotruta, Phoebe Kirk, Anand
Rao, Minh Giang, Ludovic Peran, Tris Warkentin,
Eli Collins, Joelle Barral, Zoubin Ghahramani, Raia
Hadsell, D. Sculley, Jeanine Banks, Anca Dragan,
Slav Petrov, Oriol Vinyals, Jeff Dean, Demis Hass-
abis, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Clement Farabet, Elena
Buchatskaya, Sebastian Borgeaud, Noah Fiedel, Ar-
mand Joulin, Kathleen Kenealy, Robert Dadashi,
and Alek Andreev. 2024.
Gemma 2: Improving
open language models at a practical size. Preprint,
arXiv:2408.00118.
Eric Todd, Millicent L Li, Arnab Sen Sharma, Aaron
Mueller, Byron C Wallace, and David Bau. 2023.
Function vectors in large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.15213.
Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Al-
bert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay
Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti
Bhosale, et al. 2023.
Llama 2:
Open founda-
tion and fine-tuned chat models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.09288.
Alexandre Variengien and Eric Winsor. 2023. Look
before you leap: A universal emergent decomposition
of retrieval tasks in language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.10091.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz
Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all
you need. Advances in neural information processing
systems, 30.
Chris Wendler, Veniamin Veselovsky, Giovanni Monea,
and Robert West. 2024. Do llamas work in english?
on the latent language of multilingual transformers.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.10588.
Zhaofeng Wu, Xinyan Velocity Yu, Dani Yogatama, Ji-
asen Lu, and Yoon Kim. 2024. The semantic hub
hypothesis: Language models share semantic repre-
sentations across languages and modalities. Preprint,
arXiv:2411.04986.
Zhihui Xie, Handong Zhao, Tong Yu, and Shuai Li.
2022. Discovering low-rank subspaces for language-
agnostic multilingual representations. In Proceed-
ings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing, pages 5617–5633,
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Linting Xue, Noah Constant, Adam Roberts, Mihir Kale,
Rami Al-Rfou, Aditya Siddhant, Aditya Barua, and
Colin Raffel. 2021. mt5: A massively multilingual
pre-trained text-to-text transformer. In Proceedings
of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chap-
ter of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics: Human Language Technologies. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Hongchuan Zeng, Senyu Han, Lu Chen, and Kai
Yu. 2024. Converging to a lingua franca: Evolu-
tion of linguistic regions and semantics alignment
in multilingual large language models.
Preprint,
arXiv:2410.11718.
A
Patchscope experiment
We performed an additional experiment using the
patchscope lens (Ghandeharioun et al., 2024) to
collect more evidence about from which layer it is
possible to decode the source concept in Figure 7.
The results of this experiment corroborate the find-
ings presented in Section 4. To enable a convenient
comparison of the experimental results, we also
include Figure 3 in Figure 7.
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
(a) Activation patching
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
src it
src zh
tgt it
tgt zh
src + tgt en
(b) Patchscope lens
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
it
en
Figure 7: (a) Our first patching experiment with a DE
to IT source prompt and a FR to ZH target prompt with
different concepts. (b) Our patchscope lens experiment
with a DE to IT source prompt and identity target prompt
king king\n1135 1135\nhello hello\n? . We patch at
the last token respectively. For each of the plots the
x-axis shows at which layer the patching was performed
during the forward pass on the target prompt and the
y-axis shows the probability of predicting the correct
concept in language ℓ(see legend). In the legend the
prefix “src” stands for source and “tgt” for target con-
cept. The orange dashed line and blue dash-dotted line
correspond to the mean accuracy on source and target
prompt. We report means and 95% Gaussian confidence
intervals computed over 200 source-, target prompt pairs
featuring 41 source concepts and 38 target concepts for
(a) and 38 prompts for (b).
B
Translation Pair Construction
To ensure reproducibility of our experiments,
we
provide
the
pseudocode
for
construct-
ing translation pairs used in our activation
patching experiments.
The complete imple-
mentation
is
available
in
our
codebase
at
notebooks/obj_patch_translation.ipynb.
Key constraints:
• Different concepts: We ensure that source
and target words represent different concepts
to enable meaningful patching experiments.
• No token collisions: As described in Sec-
tion 3, we track sets of tokens w(Cℓ) for each
concept-language pair. To ensure clean prob-
ability measurements, we verify that there is
no overlap between the token sets of paired
concepts across all languages used in the ex-
periment.
• Randomization: Pairs are shuffled before se-
lection to avoid systematic biases in concept
or language selection.
For our experiments, we typically use n = 200
pairs, with concepts drawn from the 200 picturable
words from the Basic English word list, ensuring
Algorithm 1 Construction of Translation Pairs for
Patching Experiments
Require: Set of source languages LS, target lan-
guage ℓT , number of pairs n
Ensure: Set of valid translation pairs P
1: Load BabelNet translations for all languages
2: TS ←GETTRANSLATIONS(LS)
3: TT ←GETTRANSLATIONS(ℓT )
4: P ←∅
▷Initialize valid pairs
5: A ←COMBINATIONS(TS, TT ) ▷All possible
pairs
6: SHUFFLE(A)
▷Randomize order
7: for (wS, wT ) ∈A do
8:
if concept(wS) = concept(wT ) then
9:
continue
▷Skip same concepts
10:
end if
11:
if HASTOKENCOLLISIONS(wS, wT ) then
12:
continue
▷Skip pairs with token
overlap
13:
end if
14:
P ←P ∪{(wS, wT )}
15:
if |P| ≥n then
16:
break
▷Sufficient pairs collected
17:
end if
18: end for
19: return P
13

===== PAGE 14 =====
sufficient statistical power while maintaining com-
putational feasibility.
C
Random prompt task experiment
In order to investigate the leftmost part of Figure 7a
more deeply, we performed additional experiments
in which we explore “random” source prompts in-
stead of translation source prompts.
The experimental setting here is similar to the
one in Sec. 4, except for the fact that instead of
patching in latents from a translation source prompt
we patch latents from different “random” source
prompts. For the random source prompts, we grad-
ually move away from the prompting template.
(a) Random prompt
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
tgt zh
tgt it
(b) Empty prompt
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
tgt zh
(c) Random prompt with “@”
instead of quotation mark
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
tgt zh
(d) Random shuffled prompt
(random hidden state)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
tgt zh
Figure 8: (a) activation patching experiment with a
randomized source prompt (random concepts, and lan-
guages, but same template) and a FR to ZH target prompt.
(b) we construct a source prompt with empty context.
(c) we replace the quotation mark with @ in the random
source prompt from (a). (d) we randomly shuffle the
source prompts from (c). We patch at the last token
respectively. For each of the plots, the x-axis shows
at which layer the patching was performed during the
forward pass on the target prompt and the y-axis shows
the probability of predicting the correct concept in lan-
guage ℓ(see legend). We only plot the target (“tgt”)
concept, as there is no source concept to predict. We
report means and 95% Gaussian confidence intervals
computed over 200 source-, target prompt pairs.
Same
template.
In
Figure
8a,
we
ran-
domized both input and output language as
well as concepts in the source prompts, re-
sulting
in
prompts
of
the
following
form:
A: “CATDE” - B: “DOGIT”
A: “OWLJA” - B: “SUNHI”
A: “ICEFR” - B: “
By doing this, the latent of the source prompt is
similar in terms of prompt structure, but the model
cannot infer a task vector specifying the output
language since the source prompt instantiates an
impossible task (to predict a random word in a ran-
dom language). As shown in Figure 8a, for layers
0–11, we observe no drop in the accuracy, which
confirms our hypothesis that in those layers the la-
tent at last token position contains no information
specific to the translation task.
Instead, we think that in our chosen prompting
template the last token, which is a quotation mark,
merely indicates where to put the translation result.
In order to investigate this, we performed further
patching experiments investigating how changes
in the prompting template in the source prompt
affects the target forward pass ability to compute
an answer.
Empty context. For example, replacing the source
prompt with an empty prompt, merely containing
B: “ results in Figure 8b. In contrast to Figure 8a,
the target concept in target language probability
drops already starting from layer 4. We think this
is due to the fact that until layer 4 the quotation
mark token information which is shared among the
two prompting templates “dominates” the latent
representation and is not yet converted to a task
specific position marker yet. Then, starting from
layer 4 the latent representation of the last token
also aggregates task specific information, in partic-
ular, the fact that the quotation mark in this task
actually marks the position after which the trans-
lated word should be decoded. As a result, replac-
ing the task specific quotation mark embedding,
which contains the information that the translated
word comes next, with the “empty-context”-one,
which does not contain this information, results in
a performance drop.
Modified template. Next, replacing the quotation
marks by “@” (Figure 8c) in the random prompt,
i.e.,
A: @CATDE@ - B: @DOGIT@
A: @OWLJA@ - B: @SUNHI@
A: @ICEFR@ - B: @
leads to a drop of performance for early layers,
but for layers 5–11, the model is not much affected
by the patching. We postulate that at those layers,
position-marker tokens have been already mapped
14

===== PAGE 15 =====
to a general position-marker feature that is similar
in between source and target forward pass, even
though at input level different symbols have been
used.
Shuffled tokens. Lastly, in Figure 8d we try to
destroy all of the shared structure in between the
source and the target prompt by randomly shuffling
the characters of the source prompts from the mod-
ified template task. As expected, the probability of
the target concept in target language becomes very
low (albeit surprisingly not zero), which shows
that the task cannot be solved without the position
marker feature.
D
Other models and languages
In this section, we report results for additional mod-
els, namely, Mistral 7B (Jiang et al., 2023), Llama
3 8B (Dubey et al., 2024), Qwen 1.5 7B (Bai et al.,
2023) and Llama 2 70B (Touvron et al., 2023). We
also include Aya 23 8B (Aryabumi et al., 2024) for
the mean patching experiment in App D.2.
D.1
Exploratory analysis
The results of the exploratory analysis outlined in
Sec. 4 are in Figure 9.
As can be seen in Figure 9, the target concept
in source language spike is smaller for Llama 3,
Mistral 7B v0.3 and Qwen 1.5 7B. This hints that
for those models, zℓ(out) and C computation overlap
more than for Llama-2-7B.
D.2
Ruling out hypotheses
In this section, we report results for the experiments
performed in Sec. 5.
In addition, instead of just patching in the mean
over different language pairs (Figure 11c, 12c), we
also patch in the mean over contexts composed
of different concept words in Figure 11b, 12b. In
particular, we take the mean over 5 different few-
shot contexts from the same language pair. E.g.:
Deutsch: “Dorf” - Italiano: “villaggio”
...
Deutsch: “Buch
...
Deutsch: “Zitrone” - Italiano: “limone”
...
Deutsch: “Buch
Our results in Figure 11 and Figure 12 show that
the mean over contexts does not increase P(CℓT
S ),
whereas the mean over language pairs does. This
is intuitive, since there may be some languages in
which the mapping from words to concept features
results in the correct concept feature vector. There-
fore, averaging over different language pairs can
increase the signal about the source concept. How-
ever, having additional random contexts stemming
from the same language pair does not bring in any
information about the source concept.
Note that Figure 9, Figure 11 and Figure 12
are on the next two pages.
D.3
Similarity comparison
We experiment with other languages and models
in Figure 13 and get the same trends as with our
results in Figure 6. We also provide results for
another experiment in which instead of measuring
embedding similarities, we measure perplexity on
ground truth definitions in Figure 14. We did not
include this metric in our analysis as it seemed to
have less granularity and is more sensitive to the
syntax rather than being focused on the semantic.
15

===== PAGE 16 =====
(a) Mistral-7B v0.3
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
src it
src zh
tgt it
tgt zh
src + tgt en
(b) Llama3-8b
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
src it
src zh
tgt it
tgt zh
src + tgt en
(c) Qwen1.5-7B
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
src it
src zh
tgt it
tgt zh
src + tgt en
(d) Llama2-70B
0
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
src it
src zh
tgt it
tgt zh
src + tgt en
Figure 9: Our first patching experiment with a DE to IT source prompt and a FR to ZH target prompt with different
concepts. We patch at the last token. For each of the plots the x-axis shows at which layer the patching was
performed during the forward pass on the target prompt and the y-axis shows the probability of predicting the correct
concept in language ℓ(see legend). In the legend the prefix “src” stands for source and “tgt” for target concept. The
orange dashed line and blue dash-dotted line correspond to the mean accuracy on source and target prompt. We
report means and 95% Gaussian confidence intervals computed over 200 source-, target prompt pairs featuring 41
source concepts and 38 target concepts.
16

===== PAGE 17 =====
Figure 10: Mean patching experiment replicated on multiple languages with 200 pairs each and 95% confidence
interval.
17

===== PAGE 18 =====
(a) Single source setup
(b) Mean over contexts
(c) Mean over language pairs
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
src zh
tgt zh
src + tgt en
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
src zh
tgt zh
src + tgt en
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
src zh
tgt zh
src + tgt en
Llama-2 7B
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
Llama-3 8B
0
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
0
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
0
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
LLama-2 70B
Figure 11: Here we use different input languages (DE, FR), different concepts, different output languages (IT, ZH) in
(a). In (b) we use the same source and target language pairs as in (a). In (c) we use multiple source input languages
DE, NL, ZH, ES, RU and output languages IT, FI, ES, RU, KO. We patch at the last token of the concept-word at all
layers from j to 31. In (a) we patch latents from the single source prompt. In (b) for each concept, we patch the
average latent over different few-shot DE to IT translation contexts. In (c) we patch the mean of the latents over
the source prompts. For each of the plots, the x-axis shows at which layer the patching was performed during the
forward pass on the target prompt and the y-axis shows the probability of predicting the correct concept in language
ℓ(see legend). The prefix “src” stands for source and “tgt” for target concept. We report means and 95% Gaussian
confidence intervals computed over a dataset of size 200.
18

===== PAGE 19 =====
(a) Single source setup
(b) Mean over contexts
(c) Mean over language pairs
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
Mistral 7B v0.3
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
Aya 23 8B
0
5
10
15
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
src zh
tgt zh
src + tgt en
0
5
10
15
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
src zh
tgt zh
src + tgt en
0
5
10
15
layer
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
concept probability
src zh
tgt zh
src + tgt en
Gemma 2B
Figure 12: Here we use different input languages (DE, FR), different concepts, different output languages (IT, ZH) in
(a). In (b) we use the same source and target language pairs as in (a). In (c) we use multiple source input languages
DE, NL, ZH, ES, RU and output languages IT, FI, ES, RU, KO. We patch at the last token of the concept-word at all
layers from j to 31. In (a) we patch latents from the single source prompt. In (b) for each concept, we patch the
average latent over different few-shot DE to IT translation contexts. In (c) we patch the mean of the latents over
the source prompts. For each of the plots, the x-axis shows at which layer the patching was performed during the
forward pass on the target prompt and the y-axis shows the probability of predicting the correct concept in language
ℓ(see legend). The prefix “src” stands for source and “tgt” for target concept. We report means and 95% Gaussian
confidence intervals computed over a dataset of size 200.
19

===== PAGE 20 =====
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Mean similarity
Target: English (156 concepts)
Target: French (29 concepts)
Target: Chinese (38 concepts)
Similarity with mean
ground truth embedding
Similarity with
other concepts
Multi-Source Translation
Multi-Source Definition
Single-Source Translation
Single-Source Definition
Word Patching
Prompting
Repeat Word
(a) Aya 23 8B
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Mean similarity
Target: English (38 concepts)
Target: French (144 concepts)
Target: Estonian (32 concepts)
Similarity with mean
ground truth embedding
Similarity with
other concepts
Multi-Source Translation
Multi-Source Definition
Single-Source Translation
Single-Source Definition
Word Patching
Prompting
Repeat Word
(b) Gemma 2 2B
Figure 13: Mean similarity between the definition and the mean embedding of the ground truth definitions, as well
as the mean similarity between the definition embedding and the embeddings of the definitions of the other concepts
in the dataset. For Aya, the results are presented for three target languages: English (with source languages French
and German and input language Spanish), French (with source languages Korean, Japanese, Estonian, Finnish and
input language English), and Chinese (with source languages Italian, Finnish, Spanish, Russian, Korean and input
languages German, Dutch, Chinese, Spanish, Russian). For Gemma, we show English (with source languages
Italian, Finnish, Spanish, Russian, Korean and input languages German, Dutch, Chinese, Spanish, Russian), French
(with source languages Spanish, German and input language Italian), and Estonian (with source languages English,
French, Chinese, German and input language Hindi). We report means and 95% Gaussian confidence intervals
computed over the dataset.
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
Mean loss
Target: English (61 concepts)
Target: French (29 concepts)
Target: Chinese (38 concepts)
Mean loss
Mean loss with
other concepts
Multi-Source Translation
Multi-Source Definition
Single-Source Translation
Single-Source Definition
Word Patching
Prompting
Figure 14: Mean loss on the ground truth definitions. We report 95% confidence intervals.
20
