===== PAGE 1 =====
A Survey of Code-switched Arabic NLP:
Progress, Challenges, and Future Directions
Injy Hamed,λ Caroline Sabty,ξ Slim Abdennadher,ξ
Ngoc Thang Vu,σ Thamar Solorio,λδ Nizar Habashλµ
λMBZUAI
ξGerman International University, Egypt
σUniversity of Stuttgart
δUniversity of Houston
µNew York University Abu Dhabi
{injy.hamed,thamar.solorio}@mbzuai.ac.ae
{caroline.sabty,slim.abdennadher}@giu-uni.de
thang.vu@ims.uni-stuttgart.de
nizar.habash@nyu.edu
Abstract
Language in the Arab world presents a complex
diglossic and multilingual setting, involving
the use of Modern Standard Arabic, various di-
alects and sub-dialects, as well as multiple Eu-
ropean languages. This diverse linguistic land-
scape has given rise to code-switching, both
within Arabic varieties and between Arabic and
foreign languages. The widespread occurrence
of code-switching across the region makes it
vital to address these linguistic needs when de-
veloping language technologies. In this paper,
we provide a review of the current literature
in the field of code-switched Arabic NLP, of-
fering a broad perspective on ongoing efforts,
challenges, research gaps, and recommenda-
tions for future research directions.
1
Introduction
Code-switching (CSW), the act of alternating be-
tween multiple languages in the same discourse, is
a common linguistic phenomenon in multilingual
societies, including Arab countries. With CSW’s
global prevalence, it has become essential to equip
language technologies to effectively handle it to
build inclusive and user-friendly tools that cater to
the needs of multilingual communities. While there
exist several survey papers on CSW (Çetino˘glu
et al., 2016; Sitaram et al., 2019; Do˘gruöz et al.,
2021; Winata et al., 2023), this paper narrows the
focus to the Arabic language, offering more in-
depth knowledge and insights for this specific lan-
guage setup. We provide this review, discussing
current literature, challenges, and research gaps,
with the aim of guiding future research and accel-
erating progress in this area.
The paper is organized as follows: §2 provides
an overview on the linguistic landscape in the Arab
world and historical factors giving rise to CSW;
§3 discusses the types of CSW; §4 describes the
paper categorization process; §5 presents overall
statistics on the current literature in CSW Arabic
NLP; §6 and §7 give further insights into the efforts
on data collection, modeling, and guidelines and
annotation tools that are useful in the context of
CSW; and §8 suggests future research directions.
2
Language in the Arab World
Historical events have long influenced the patterns
of CSW between Arabic and other languages. Dur-
ing the 7th and 8th centuries, the Islamic conquests
brought Arabic into extensive contact with several
languages, including Persian (Khan et al., 2011)
and Spanish (Thomas and Sayahi, 2019), leading
to profound linguistic exchanges. Later, from the
16th until the early 20th century, Turkish and Ara-
bic intermingled during the Ottoman Empire, leav-
ing lasting imprints on both languages. Afterwards,
during the 19th and 20th centuries, several Arab
countries were impacted by the spread of Euro-
pean colonialism across the region. According to
Duranti (2008) and Cotterell et al. (2014), coloniza-
tion played a main role in shaping the language in
the region, where the local languages were overlain
by European languages. These events and cultural
interactions led to linguistic exchanges, giving rise
to CSW between Arabic and numerous languages.
In contemporary times, globalization and interna-
tional businesses and education have further in-
tensified this phenomenon, with Arabic speakers
increasingly using English and other languages in
social and professional settings.
Besides code-switching to foreign languages,
with Arabic being a diglossic language (Ferguson,
1959), Arabs also switch between formal Arabic
and dialects. The formal Arabic variant, Modern
Standard Arabic (MSA), serves as a lingua franca
across Arab countries and is typically used in for-
mal contexts. Dialects (and sub-dialects), belong-
ing to each country, are used in everyday conver-
sations and informal writings. This gives rise to
two main types of CSW in the region: (1) CSW
arXiv:2501.13419v1  [cs.CL]  23 Jan 2025

===== PAGE 2 =====
CSW Type
Example
Inter-sentential
I need to prepare for it. .I. K
Q¯ 	àAjJÓ@ ø
 Y	J« A	K@
I have an exam coming up. I need to prepare for it.
Extra-sentential
. @QºK. ¨ðQåÖÏ@ úÎ« É	ªJ Aë Okay
Okay I’ll work on the project tomorrow.
Intra-sentential
is in the field of computer vision ú
«AJK. ¨ðQåÖÏ@
My project is in the field of computer vision.
Morphological CSW
before the deadline èXPAî 	DË@ models+È@ evaluate+ 	à Ð 	PB
We have to evaluate the models today before the deadline.
Table 1: Examples of different CSW types followed by their English translation. The originally Arabic phrases are
italicized in the English translation.
between MSA and dialects, and (2) CSW between
Arabic and foreign languages. Following Adouane
et al. (2018a), we refer to the former type as diglos-
sic code-switching and the latter as bilingual code-
switching. Bilingual CSW is seen across the re-
gion, including Arabic-English in Egypt (Abu-
Melhim, 1991), Jordan (Mustafa and Al-Khatib,
1994), Palestine (Mkahal, 2016), Saudi Arabia
(Omar and Ilyas, 2018), and UAE (Khuwaileh,
2003). A high level of multilingualism, with the
mixing of Arabic, English, and French, is found
in Morocco (Samih and Maier, 2016a), Algeria
(Baya Essayahi and Kerras, 2016), Lebanon (Bacha
and Bahous, 2011), and Tunisia (Baoueb, 2009).
While Arabic CSW occurs with a wide range
of languages, we restrict the scope of this paper
to those so far addressed within the field of com-
putational linguistics. We also restrict our scope
to CSW language alternation, excluding studies
looking into the origin of words in languages influ-
enced by others, such as the investigation presented
in Micallef et al. (2024) for Maltese.
3
Types of Code-switching
According to Poplack (1980), there are three main
types of CSW: inter-sentential, extra-sentential,
and intra-sentential. In the case of morphologically
rich languages, morphological code-switching (Ste-
fanich et al., 2019) also occurs. We elaborate on
each type below, providing examples in Table 1:
• Inter-sentential CSW involves switching of
languages on the sentence-level.
• Extra-sentential CSW (or tag-switching) in-
volves using tag elements from another lan-
guage such as fillers, interjections, tags, and
idiomatic expressions.
• Intra-sentential CSW involves word-level
switching, where CSW segments must con-
form to the syntactic rules of both languages.
• Morphological CSW (or intra-word CSW)
involves switching on the morpheme-level.
Given that Arabic is a morphologically rich
language, Arabic-speakers attach Arabic cli-
tics and affixes to foreign words.
Another type of language alternation is referred
to as borrowing, where loanwords are embedded
into sentences without the need for grammatical
considerations. According to Poplack (1980), bor-
rowing is not considered as a type of CSW. Myers-
Scotton (1997), however, considers any embedded
segment from the secondary language as a case of
CSW. Given that automatically identifying whether
an embedded word is a case of borrowing or CSW
is a challenging task, the majority of the surveyed
efforts in this paper consider any presence of for-
eign tokens as CSW. Within the scope of the paper,
CSW is used to refer to all the mentioned types of
language alternation, including borrowing.
4
Paper Categorization Process
We conduct our search for relevant papers on
Google Scholar using keywords that involve code-
switch, code-mix, and Arabic.
Afterwards, we
categorize the collected papers, where we take in-
spiration from the guidelines presented in Winata
et al. (2023). We annotate the papers for mul-
tiple categories, as shown in Table 2, including
the year, venue, and language pairs.
For the
language pairs, we use five categories specify-
ing CSW between MSA, dialectal Arabic (DA),
and foreign language(s): MSA-DA, MSA-Foreign,
DA-Foreign, Arabic-Foreign, MSA-DA-Foreign.
‘Arabic-Foreign’ is used when the variant of Arabic
(MSA or DA) is not explicitly stated. Empirical
papers are annotated for the NLP tasks and method-
ological approaches. Resource papers are annota-
tion for the domain of collected data and the NLP
tasks that they support.

===== PAGE 3 =====
Category
Options
Language Pairs
MSA-DA, MSA-Foreign, DA-Foreign, Arabic-Foreign, MSA-DA-Foreign
Venues
Conference, Workshop, Symposium, Book, Journal, ArXiv, Thesis
Methods
Rule/Linguistic Constraint, Statistical Model, Neural Network, Pre-trained Model
NLP Tasks
Text: Word-level Language Identification, Sentence-level Language Identification, CSW Point Prediction,
Dialectness Level Estimation, Dependency Parsing, Fake News Detection, Humor Detection, Humor
Generation, Emotion Detection, Language Modeling, Lemmatization, Machine Translation, Micro-
Dialect Identification, Named Entity Recognition, Natural Language Entailment, Natural Language
Understanding, Part-of-Speech Tagging, Question Answering, Sarcasm Detection, Sentiment Analysis,
Semantic Parsing, Spelling Correction and Text Normalization, Summarization, CSW Text Generation,
Tokenization, Topic Modeling, Transliteration, Word Analogy, Abusive Language Detection
Speech: Word-level Language Identification, Sentence-level Language Identification, Automatic Speech
Recognition, Speech Synthesis, Speech Translation, Sentence Boundary Detection, Text-to-Speech
Table 2: The categories used in the annotation process.
5
Overview on Literature Review
5.1
Number of Papers Across the Years
While CSW has been thoroughly studied by lin-
guists since 1980s (Poplack, 1980), it started re-
ceiving considerable attention from the Arabic NLP
community in 2014. The work on CSW has been
greatly motivated by the Workshop on Computa-
tional Approaches to Linguistic Code-Switching,
including shared tasks (ST) which took place in the
years of 2014, 2016, 2018, and 2021, reflected in
the peaks shown in Figure 1. In general, on average,
there are 12 papers per year since 2014, reflecting
the need for increased attention in this area.
Figure 1: Number of Shared Task (ST) and non-Shared
Task (non-ST) papers.
5.2
Distribution of Papers Across Venue Types
The majority of the papers are published at confer-
ences (50%), followed by workshops (36%, with
13% absolute belonging to shared tasks), followed
by journals (7%), arXiv papers (4%) that have not
yet been published in venues, and theses (3%).
5.3
Evolution in Methodology Methods
We show the evolution in methodology methods in
CSW Arabic NLP by plotting the distribution of
methods across the years in Figure 2. Comparing
these timelines to those presented in Winata et al.
(2023) for CSW overall work, we observe a 3-4
year delay in adopting new methodologies. This is
observed for neural-based approaches, which are
applied in CSW Arabic NLP in 2016, three years
after their utilization in overall work on CSW. Sim-
ilarly, the use of pretrained models in CSW Arabic
NLP started in 2020, compared to 2016 for CSW
overall. Despite this delay, we observe alignment
with the global NLP trends, showing interest in the
Arabic community in advancing CSW research.
Figure 2: Distribution of papers based on the methods.
5.4
Investigated Language Pairs
We analyze the papers by language pair categories
following our annotation guidelines, specifying
Arabic variants and foreign languages when in-
dicated. Figure 3 shows these distributions. We
observe that current research is primarily focused
on CSW DA-foreign and MSA-DA, which is inline
with their prevalent use in real-life. For diglos-
sic CSW, MSA-Egyptian is the most studied lan-
guage pair, while Egyptian-English and Algerian-
French are leading for bilingual CSW. Several stud-
ies cover more than three languages, however, their
count might be exaggerated, as some papers lack
sentence-level CSW statistics, making it infeasible
to understand the extent of mixing.

===== PAGE 4 =====
Figure 3: The number of papers covering the different CSW language setups. We present the distribution as per the
annotation guidelines (left) with further language specification (right). Language codes are provided in Appendix A.
6
Insights on Language Resources
Dataset Sources
We report the following distri-
bution of datasets’ sources: social media (36), tran-
scriptions (21), speech recordings (18), internet
forms and blogs (11), news (8), dialogue (6), songs
(3), government documents (2), and books (1). The
domination of social media is expected as it offers a
non-expensive source of text, where CSW is likely
to occur. However, it is to be noted that CSW phe-
nomena occurring in text could be more restricted
than in natural speech (Hamed et al., 2022c). For
example, in the case of Arabic bilingual CSW,
given that Arabic and foreign languages use differ-
ent scripts, users may be dissuaded to code-switch,
especially in the case of intra-word CSW. Users
may opt for romanization, known as Arabizi (Bies
et al., 2014), where Arabic words are represented
by Latin letters and numerals. However, users have
different attitudes and preferences regarding the
use of Arabizi (Alsulami, 2019), where initiatives,
such as BilArabi (meaning “in Arabic”), have even
been established to promote the use of MSA over
social media as part of efforts in preserving the
Arabic language (Taha Thomure, 2019).
NLP Tasks’ Coverage
In Table 3, we present
statistics on the NLP tasks supported by the col-
lected datasets. The complete list of papers is pro-
vided in Appendix C. We note that the task of
language modeling is supported by all collected
textual corpora. Otherwise, only word-level LID
contains a reasonable number of corpora (22). This
is followed by ASR (17), MT (7), transliteration (7),
and sentiment analysis (6). The remaining tasks
are not well supported, highlighting a significant
gap in resources. Further efforts are needed to ex-
tend existing datasets, offering greater diversity in
represented sources, dialects, and tasks.
Task
E R
Text: Word-level Language Identification (LID)
32 22
Text: Named Entity Recognition (NER)
15
3
Text: Machine Translation (MT)
13
7
Text: Sentiment Analysis
10
6
Text: Part-of-Speech Tagging
6
3
Text: Sentence-level Language Identification
5
3
Text: Transliteration
5
7
Text: Language Modeling
4 49
Text: Abusive Language Detection
2
3
Text: Sentence-level Micro-Dialect Identification
2
2
Text: Spelling Correction and Text Normalization
2
1
Text: Dependency Parsing
2
1
Text: Tokenization
1
3
Text: Fake News Detection
1
1
Text: Word Analogy
1
1
Text: Topic Modeling
1
1
Text: Question Answering
1
0
Text: Lemmatization
0
1
Text: Dialectness Level Estimation
0
2
Text: Emotion Detection
0
1
Speech: Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)
22 17
Speech: Speech Translation
2
1
Speech: Word-level Language Identification
1
4
Speech: Sentence Boundary Detection
1 11
Speech: Sentence-level Language Identification
0
1
Table 3: The coverage of NLP tasks across empirical
(E) and resource (R) papers.
7
Insights on NLP Tasks
In Table 3, we present the distribution of empirical
papers across tasks (complete list in Appendix B).
The most studied tasks are word-level LID in text,
ASR, NER, and MT. We believe the distribution
is greatly affected by Shared Tasks (Solorio et al.,
2014; Molina et al., 2016; Aguilar et al., 2018;
Chen et al., 2021) and PhD theses (Elfardy, 2017;
Samih, 2017; Amazouz, 2019; Adouane, 2020; Al-
Ghamdi, 2020; Sabty, 2024; Hamed, 2024). In this
Section, we provide insights into research efforts
and challenges in a selection of the NLP tasks.

===== PAGE 5 =====
7.1
Language Identification (LID)
Word-level LID
Word-level LID is a sequence-
to-sequence classification task, where the goal is
to assign a language label to each word. Only few
researchers have tackled this task in the speech
domain, covering CSW Algerian-French (Ama-
zouz et al., 2017) and MSA-DA (Chowdhury et al.,
2020). The remaining efforts were conducted in
the text domain, with social media platforms being
the prominent source of text. In the text-domain,
the majority of empirical papers covered MSA-
DA (19/32), followed by romanized Arabic-foreign
(9/32) and Arabic-Arabized foreign (6/32) CSW.
One challenge in this task is the presence of
words sharing lexical forms across languages, that
are cognates/faux-amis, having similar/different
meanings. This issue is more pronounced in diglos-
sic CSW due to shared vocabulary between MSA
and DA. This introduces ambiguity, especially with
the lack of acoustic cues, challenging automatic as
well as manual annotations. These challenges were
discussed in Solorio et al. (2014) and Aguilar et al.
(2020), where MSA-DA was found to be the hard-
est language pair across the explored languages,
including Nepali-English, Mandarin-English, Span-
ish English, and Hindi-English. Another challenge
that arises, especially in the case of bilingual CSW,
is distinguishing between borrowings and CSW.
Given the complexity of such a distinction, many
researchers do not address this, where the decision
is left to the annotators’ judgment. Alternatively, a
language label for borrowed words can be used as
proposed in Adouane and Dobnik (2017). Morpho-
logical CSW also adds another layer of complexity.
While most researchers have handled it using a
‘mixed’ language label, Sabty et al. (2021a) further
expand this label specifying the languages on the
morpheme-level in morphological CSW words.
Sentence-level LID
For sentence-level LID, we
discuss two tasks. The first involves identifying
whether a sentence includes CSW, which was ex-
plored for MSA-DA (Altamimi, 2020) and roman-
ized Arabic-foreign (Shehadi and Wintner, 2022).
The second task is dialect identification, which
involves identifying the Arabic variant of a sen-
tence. This task has been well studied, where it
has mostly been defined as a single-label classifi-
cation task (Bouamor et al., 2018; Abdelali et al.,
2021; Abdul-Mageed et al., 2023). Lately, Abdul-
Mageed et al. (2024) modified the task definition
into multi-label classification, overcoming the limi-
tations of single labels, including sentences being
acceptable under several Arabic variants (Keleg
and Magdy, 2023). In the scope of CSW, the task
has been investigated in the contexts of diglossic
(Al-Badrashiny et al., 2015; El-Haj et al., 2018)
and bilingual (Abdul-Mageed et al., 2020; Abainia,
2018) CSW, where challenges are introduced due
to the presence of foreign words and the vocabu-
lary overlap between MSA and DA. We note, how-
ever, that the current task definition falls short in
handling CSW, and we recommend refining it to
identify mixed variants within a sentence.
7.2
Dialectness Level Identification
This task has been defined as both a regression (Ke-
leg et al., 2023) and classification (Abdul-Mageed
et al., 2024) problem. However, both efforts do not
take CSW into account. Efforts involving Arabic
CSW are limited to guidelines’ development and
data annotation. Badawi (1973) defines five levels
for Egyptian Arabic based on the use of MSA, di-
alect, as well as foreign languages, reflecting on the
educational levels of the participants of each group.
Habash et al. (2008) accounts for diglossic CSW
when defining the following five levels of dialect-
ness: perfect MSA, imperfect MSA, MSA-dialectal
CSW, dialect with MSA incursions, and pure di-
alect. The guidelines were adopted by Hamed et al.
(2024), where transcriptions having a mixture of
MSA, Gulf and Egyptian Arabic, and English were
annotated accordingly.
7.3
Transliteration
Transliterating romanized Arabic words into Ara-
bic script is a challenging task as romanization
is non-standard and unlike HSB transliteration
scheme (Habash et al., 2007), does not have a di-
rect one-to-one mapping to Arabic words. When
compounded with CSW, another layer of complex-
ity is added as foreign words should remain un-
changed. Previous approaches (Darwish, 2014; Es-
kander et al., 2014) involved a two-step process of
Arabic/foreign word-level LID followed by script
conversion. Shazal et al. (2020) presented the first
effort for a unified model for both; Arabizi detec-
tion and transliteration. In terms of the explored
language pairs, the main focus of research has been
on romanized Arabic-English, where we still lack
research on Arabic-Arabized foreign. Little explo-
ration has also been conducted on transliterating
Judeo-Arabic with code-switched Hebrew and Ara-
maic into Arabic (Mitelman et al., 2024).

===== PAGE 6 =====
7.4
Machine Translation (MT)
Despite CSW Arabic MT being only addressed in
13 papers, efforts cover a broad range of dialects
and translation directions. Chen et al. (2021) intro-
duced a shared task, covering two-way translation
between CSW MSA-Egyptian and English. Re-
search on translating from CSW Arabic-foreign to
the foreign language has been conducted for several
language pairs, covering MSA-English, Egyptian-
English, Jordanian-English, Palestinian-English,
Algerian-French, Moroccan-French, and Tunisian-
French, as outlined in Appendix B. Less research
has focused on translating CSW Arabic-foreign to
Arabic as well as both directions (Hamed et al.,
2022c; Heakl et al., 2024). Translating to the pri-
mary language is particularly useful, as it could
help bilingual speakers bridge language gaps, given
that bilinguals are driven towards CSW in cases
of lack of language proficiency (Heredia and Al-
tarriba, 2001). Another interesting translation di-
rection is translating from monolingual to CSW,
which has been slightly explored in the context of
CSW data augmentation (Hamed et al., 2023b) and
ChatGPT evaluation (Khondaker et al., 2023).
7.5
Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)
CSW presents challenges to ASR on all three
fronts; data collection, modeling and evaluation.
In terms of data collection, given the costly and
tedious process of building CSW speech corpora,
they are usually scarce. CSW also usually occurs
in only a portion of naturally-occurring speech,
further limiting the amount of collected data. Chal-
lenges in modeling include the scarcity/lack of
CSW corpora and its imbalance with the vaster
amounts of MSA and dialectal Arabic data that
are usually used to boost performance, in addi-
tion to the mixed acoustic dynamics that can arise
with using different languages (Hamed et al., 2020;
Mustafa et al., 2022).
In terms of methodolo-
gies, both hybrid (Elfahal et al., 2020; Chowdhury
et al., 2020; Ali et al., 2021; Hussein et al., 2023)
and end-to-end (Mubarak et al., 2021; Chowdhury
et al., 2021; Hamed et al., 2022c, 2023a; Hussein
et al., 2024) ASR architectures have been investi-
gated. Both architectures were compared in Hamed
et al. (2022a), where comparable, yet complemen-
tary, performance was reported. Pretrained mod-
els have mostly been used for benchmarking pur-
poses (Heakl et al., 2024; Al Ali and Aldarmaki,
2024; Abdelali et al., 2024), where more research
is needed to explore how to optimally use these
models to achieve further advancements, as con-
ducted in Kulkarni et al. (2023). In terms of eval-
uation, limitations of WER and CER have been
discussed (Chowdhury et al., 2021; Hamed et al.,
2022a; Abdallah et al., 2024). Researchers have
utilized transliteration as well as phonological and
semantic similarities to alleviate cross-transcription
issue, improving correlations with human judg-
ments (Hamed et al., 2023c; Kadaoui et al., 2024).
7.6
Guidelines and Annotation Tools
Guidelines have been developed for CSW Arabic
data collection for several tasks, including tran-
scriptions (Hamed et al., 2020, 2024), ASR mini-
mal post-editing (Hamed et al., 2023c), translations
(Hamed et al., 2022c), annotations for word-level
LID in text (Samih and Maier, 2016b; Diab et al.,
2019) and speech (Chowdhury et al., 2020) as well
as dialectness level identification (Badawi, 1973;
Habash et al., 2008). With regards to useful tools,
several tools have been developed for facilitating
data collection (Benajiba and Diab, 2010; Voss
et al., 2014; Al-Shargi and Rambow, 2015; Diab
et al., 2019; Elwy and Sabty, 2024).
8
Research Gaps and Future Directions
This survey highlights a clear need to expand re-
search in CSW Arabic NLP to address a wider cov-
erage of languages and tasks. Efforts are needed
across data collection, modeling, and evaluation, ul-
timately supporting the development of more inclu-
sive language technologies that can effectively han-
dle the linguistic diversity within the Arab world.
Building CSW Arabic Benchmarks
Bench-
marks are essential for standardizing evaluation,
tracking progress, and guiding research. However,
CSW Arabic remains underrepresented in current
benchmarks. In the scope of CSW, the two main
benchmarks are LinCE (Aguilar et al., 2020) and
GLUECoS (Khanuja et al., 2020). Arabic is only
represented in LinCE, covering diglossic CSW for
LID and NER tasks. In the scope of Arabic NLP,
Nagoudi et al. (2023) and Abdelali et al. (2024)
offer benchmarks that cover a variety of dialects
and tasks, however, CSW evaluations only cover
ASR and MT tasks. The existing benchmarks are
insufficient to fully reflect the current performance
of models, highlighting the need for broader bench-
marks that encompass a wider range of language
pairs and tasks to better guide future research.

===== PAGE 7 =====
Understanding and Improving the Capabilities
of Pretrained Models for Arabic
As large lan-
guage models (LLMs) and large speech models
gain popularity, understanding their capabilities for
CSW Arabic is crucial. Researchers evaluated pre-
trained models for CSW languages (Winata et al.,
2021) and Arabic NLP (Khondaker et al., 2023;
Nagoudi et al., 2023; Abdelali et al., 2024; Heakl
et al., 2024; Al Ali and Aldarmaki, 2024). However,
CSW Arabic is only minimally addressed, where
the limited evaluations reveal varying performance
across tasks and language pairs. In ASR, word error
rates reported on CSW speech corpora range from
28% to 54% (Abdelali et al., 2024; Heakl et al.,
2024; Kadaoui et al., 2024; Lachemat et al., 2024).
In MT, LLMs’ performance varies across different
corpora having different language pairs and transla-
tion directions, with reported BLEU scores ranging
from 38 to 87 (Khondaker et al., 2023; Heakl et al.,
2024). Despite these models surpassing state-of-
the-art models (Abdelali et al., 2024; Heakl et al.,
2024), there remains substantial room for improve-
ment. Additionally, the ability of LLMs to generate
CSW Arabic text has not yet been thoroughly eval-
uated. Such an evaluation was conducted for South
East Asian languages where varying performance
was reported across languages (Yong et al., 2023).
For Arabic, Khondaker et al. (2023) prompted Chat-
GPT to convert English sentences to CSW Arabic-
English. While the generated translations were
found to be fluent and faithful to the original mean-
ing, human annotators gave low scores for its CSW
ability, defined as ‘how accurately the translated
text includes code-switching’. We highlight this as
another area worthy of investigation.
Building CSW User-facing Applications
As
highlighted in Do˘gruöz et al. (2021), there is a need
for developing applications that interact with users
in CSW language. This is an important capabil-
ity of NLP systems in order to build user-friendly
and human-like language technologies. Such ap-
plications are still lacking for Arabic, as in other
languages. One important aspect to consider here
is the dynamic behaviour of CSW, where it is af-
fected by multiple factors. In the Arab region, CSW
behaviour is found to be affected by external fac-
tors (e.g. topic, communication channel, and par-
ticipants’ roles and relationships) as well as user-
related factors, including demographics (e.g. age
and education) and personality (e.g. extraversion
and neuroticism traits) (Post, 2015; Alaiyed, 2018;
Aljasir, 2020; Hamed et al., 2021, 2022b). Ac-
cordingly, applications such as chatbots should be
able to identify the appropriate language settings
across situations, ranging from monolingual MSA
and DA to diglossic and bilingual CSW. Given that
the factors affecting CSW may differ across coun-
tries, it is important to tackle this problem from the
perspective of the Arabic language and culture.
Generating Personalized CSW Text
The im-
portance of accommodating the different linguis-
tic styles of users in user-facing applications was
emphasized in Bawa et al. (2020), where users’
preferences regarding CSW chatbots were affected
by their attitudes and enthusiasm towards CSW.
However, despite CSW text generation receiving
considerable attention across languages, research
exploring the personalization aspect remains lim-
ited (Sengupta et al., 2023; Mondal et al., 2022). In
the scope of Arabic, CSW data augmentation has
been explored for improving performance on NER,
MT, ASR, and speech translation tasks (Sabty et al.,
2021b; Hamed et al., 2023a,b; Hussein et al., 2023,
2024), however, we still lack research on the per-
sonalization front. A major bottleneck in this pur-
suit is the lack of diverse datasets annotated with
users’ meta-data, involving diverse users’ socio-
logical and psychological profiles, as well as di-
verse external settings. Therefore, we encourage re-
searchers to include users’ meta-data as part of data
collection. Also, to facilitate large-scale projects,
unified guidelines are needed for collecting users’
meta-data. These guidelines could benefit from the
vast amount of research investigating the factors in-
fluencing CSW in the Arab world (Bentahila, 1983;
Albirini, 2011; Hafez, 2015; Post, 2015; Ali and
Mohamed, 2018; El Bolock et al., 2020; Alsamhan
and Almutrafi, 2022).
Exploring the Effectiveness of User-adaptive
NLP Models
Previous research, focused on other
languages, has demonstrated benefits of adapting
NLP systems to users’ CSW behaviour. In Vu et al.
(2013), it was shown that clustering speakers based
on their CSW attitude and adapting the language
model accordingly can enhance language model-
ing and ASR performance. In Rallabandi et al.
(2018), features extracted from acoustics were used
to distinguish between different CSW styles, where
style-specific language models showed reduction
in perplexity. Given the limited but promising stud-
ies, it would be interesting to extend this line of
research to improve CSW Arabic NLP models.

===== PAGE 8 =====
CSW in Medical and Educational Domains
CSW serves various purposes in medical and ed-
ucational domains, as investigated by a number
of studies in healthcare and educational institutes
in the Arab world (Almathkuri, 2016; Alkhudair,
2019; Alhamami, 2020; Alkhlaifat et al., 2020;
Yang, 2021; Zaghlool and Altamimi, 2023; Dooly
and Bakri, 2024). In the medical domain, CSW
was reported to facilitate bridging lexical gaps,
addressing sensitive topics, maintaining interper-
sonal relationships, and signaling power and hier-
archical dynamics. It was reported, on the other
hand, that the misuse of CSW may evoke negative
feelings, including suspicion among patients or
concealment of information and disrespect among
colleagues. In the educational domain, reported
CSW functions include facilitating language acqui-
sition, supporting better and faster comprehension,
increasing student-teacher interaction, and enliven-
ing the class atmosphere. It is to be noted though
that CSW behaviour is highly dynamic in these
domains, affected by factors such as educational
instruction language, expatriate populations (being
high in some Arab countries such as the UAE),
disparities in education levels and language profi-
ciency across urban and rural cities, and disparities
in socio-economic backgrounds across private and
public sectors. All these functions and nuances of
CSW need to be taken into account when develop-
ing language technologies to ensure they align with
the functional and cultural needs of users.
Evaluating Naturalness of Generated CSW data
As mentioned in Winata et al. (2023), automatically
evaluating the quality of generated CSW data is an
area that is still understudied. The task has only
been tackled by Kodali et al. (2024) and Kuwanto
et al. (2024) for non-Arabic language pairs. In
the scope of Arabic, the complexity of naturalness
evaluation for CSW Arabic-English was demon-
strated in Hamed et al. (2023b), where human inter-
annotator agreement only reached fair agreement
on pairwise Cohen Kappa. This is due to CSW
being a speaker-dependent behaviour (Vu et al.,
2013), where annotators’ judgments may be biased
towards their own CSW styles and those surround-
ing them. In the scope of Arabic bilingual CSW,
human annotations have been collected for natural-
ness evaluation (Hussein et al., 2023; Hamed et al.,
2023a,b), however, only involving a small number
of annotators. In future work, given the subjectivity
of the task, we encourage diversifying the pool of
annotators to minimize cultural bias, in line with
recommendations from Hershcovich et al. (2022).
Handling Morphological CSW
Morphological
CSW adds further complexity to NLP tasks, where
performance reductions are demonstrated in MT
and ASR tasks for this type of CSW (Gaser et al.,
2023; Hamed et al., 2022a). Given that morpholog-
ical CSW typically occurs in a subset of the corpus
samples, we recommend that researchers report
evaluation results on it separately to fully assess
the CSW capabilities of the models. In the context
of CSW text generation, producing morphologi-
cal CSW is challenging, as it cannot be generated
through rule-based approaches. For example, in
Egyptian Arabic, the suffix H@ At ‘feminine plu-
ral form’ can be attached to ‘event’ (which has a
masculine gender in Arabic), while cannot be at-
tached to ‘school’ (which has a feminine gender in
Arabic). This limits the applicability of certain text
generation methods, such as lexical replacements.
Back-translation, on the other hand, was found to
be capable of generating sentences with correct
morphological CSW (Hamed et al., 2023b). With
the growing interest in CSW Arabic text genera-
tion, morphological CSW deserves more attention.
Broader studies are needed to capture the diverse
range of patterns varying between dialects, indi-
viduals, and domains (text versus speech), where
linguistic studies on morphological CSW patterns
can providing valuable support for this research
direction (Farid, 2019; Knia´z and Zawrotna, 2021).
Assessing Evaluation Metrics
Besides CSW in-
troducing challenges in modeling, it also poses
challenges in evaluation. This has been discussed
in ASR for Arabic bilingual CSW (Hamed et al.,
2023c), where the limitations of metrics relying on
string-based matching are highlighted in the case of
unstandardized orthography and cross-transcription
(where words are transcribed and recognized in dif-
ferent scripts). The authors show that word and
character error rates, despite being the widely-used
metrics in ASR, are not adequate under these con-
ditions. We still lack similar research assessing
evaluation metrics for other tasks within CSW Ara-
bic NLP. One foreseeable issue in bilingual CSW
is the limitation of string-based matching metrics
used in language generation tasks, such as translit-
eration and summarization, where models should
not be penalized for different script choices in case
of borrowed words.

===== PAGE 9 =====
CSW Privacy and Ethical Considerations
There are important privacy and ethical concerns
that need to be addressed when collecting CSW cor-
pora. Given that the phenomenon occurs frequently
in informal communication, primary sources for ob-
taining CSW data include speech, social media, and
chat messages. This highlights the need for proper
anonymization and privacy-preserving practices to
protect users’ identities. While researchers have
worked on data anonymization in text (Zhou et al.,
2008; Beigi and Liu, 2020; Sotoláˇr et al., 2021)
and speaker anonymization in speech (Meyer et al.,
2022, 2023a,b, 2024) for monolingual data, there
is a notable gap in addressing CSW contexts. We
identify this as an interesting direction, where chal-
lenges introduced by CSW would need to be tack-
led, such as current limitations of text-to-speech
systems in handling CSW with Arabic dialects. Fur-
thermore, from a data collection stand-point, we
advise researchers to obtain informed consent from
participants on the public release of collected data,
as a high percentage of non-public CSW data has
been highlighted in Winata et al. (2023), which
hinders research advancements in the field. Fi-
nally, we emphasize the importance of developing
corpora covering a wide range of languages and di-
alects, including underrepresented CSW language
setups, to avoid marginalization of minority lan-
guages, such as Saidi Arabic (upper Egyptian di-
alect), Fellahi Arabic (Levantine peasant dialects),
Amazigh languages, Kurdish, and Shehri/Jibbali (a
modern South Arabian language).
Exploring Unexplored Tasks
As shown in Ta-
ble 3, only half of the NLP tasks identified in Ta-
ble 2 for annotation have been explored empiri-
cally. This leaves us with a significant number
of unexplored tasks, including CSW point predic-
tion (Solorio and Liu, 2008), natural language en-
tailment, natural language understanding, question
answering, humor detection and generation, sar-
casm detection, semantic parsing, dialectness level
estimation, summarization, speech synthesis, and
text-to-speech. Moreover, among the tasks that
have been covered, half are addressed in only 1-2
papers. In this large pool of understudied tasks,
while word-level classification tasks are important,
we recommend prioritizing high-level tasks such
as question answering, text-to-speech, and speech
translation, as these are essential for enhancing
user-facing applications that require effective han-
dling of CSW.
Improving State-of-the-art CSW Arabic Models
We highlight that even for the well-investigated
NLP tasks, there is still room for improvement.
For word-level LID, the performance of models
reached an F1 score of 91.9 for diglossic CSW (At-
tia et al., 2019) and 95.0 for bilingual CSW (She-
hadi and Wintner, 2022). As for NER, the models
reached an F1 score of 85.2 for diglossic CSW
(Winata et al., 2021) and 79.4 for bilingual CSW
(Sabty et al., 2020). For MT, a BLEU score of 87.2
(Heakl et al., 2024) is reported when translating
from CSW sentences to Arabic. BLEU scores rang-
ing from 23.1 to 53.6 are reported when translating
to the foreign language across different CSW lan-
guage pairs. For ASR, WER in the range of 24.8-
53.8% is reported across different CSW Arabic-
foreign speech corpora.
For ST, BLEU scores
of 31.1 and 17.0 are reported, translating to Ara-
bic and the foreign language, respectively (Hamed
et al., 2022c, 2023a). While comprehensive bench-
marks are required, as previously discussed, to as-
sess the current state-of-art, we acknowledge that
further work is needed to improve the CSW capa-
bilities of existing models, especially in the areas
of text generation and speech processing.
9
Summary and Outlook
In this paper, we review current efforts in code-
switched Arabic NLP. Arabic code-switching
presents a wide range of challenges for the NLP
community, that are compounded by the inherent
complexities of Arabic itself, including diglossia,
romanization, and unstandardized orthographies in
dialects. We discuss existing literature, highlight
research gaps and challenges, and identify direc-
tions for future work. We hope this paper guides
researchers to further advance this research area,
with the goal of developing language technologies
that meet the linguistic needs of the Arab world.
Limitations
We acknowledge that our survey is limited by a
number of factors. First, the scope is confined to
available literature, which may exclude emerging
research and recent advancements. Second, the
survey primarily focuses on major Arabic dialects
and may not fully represent less-studied varieties or
minority languages in the Arab World. Finally, the
diverse linguistic and cultural contexts across the
Arab world can influence code-switching patterns,
which may not be uniformly covered.

===== PAGE 10 =====
Ethics Statement
This paper did not involve human annotation collec-
tion or the creation of new datasets. We acknowl-
edge that research in code-switched language pro-
cessing, like many NLP tasks, could lead to the
development of tools that might be misused for
user profiling or generating non-standard language.
Our focus is on advancing nuanced understanding
of language use in real-world contexts to enhance
applications such as speech recognition, machine
translation, and text rewriting, while adhering to
ethical guidelines and mitigating potential misuse.
References
Kheireddine Abainia. 2018. Detecting Algerian sub-
dialects of on-line commentators in social media net-
works. In Proceedings of the Third International
Conference on Pattern Analysis and Intelligent Sys-
tems (PAIS), pages 1–8.
Kheireddine Abainia. 2019. DZDC12: a new multipur-
pose parallel Algerian Arabizi–French code-switched
corpus. Language Resources and Evaluation, pages
1–37.
Ahmed Amine Ben Abdallah, Ata Kabboudi, Amir Ka-
noun, and Salah Zaiem. 2024. Leveraging data col-
lection and unsupervised learning for code-switched
Tunisian Arabic automatic speech recognition. In
Proceedings of ICASSP, pages 12607–12611.
Ahmed Abdelali, Hamdy Mubarak, Shammur Absar
Chowdhury, Maram Hasanain, Basel Mousi, Sabri
Boughorbel, Samir Abdaljalil, Yassine El Kheir,
Daniel Izham, Fahim Dalvi, et al. 2024. LAraBench:
Benchmarking Arabic AI with large language models.
In Proceedings of EACL, pages 487–520.
Ahmed Abdelali, Hamdy Mubarak, Younes Samih,
Sabit Hassan, and Kareem Darwish. 2021. QADI:
Arabic dialect identification in the wild. In Proceed-
ings of the sixth Arabic natural language processing
workshop, pages 1–10.
Hocini Abdelouahab and Kamel Smaïli. 2024. Detect-
ing fake news: Exploring key features in multilingual
Arabic dialect corpus. In Proccedings of the Interna-
tional Conference on Arabic Language Processing.
Muhammad Abdul-Mageed, Abdelrahim Elmadany,
Chiyu Zhang, Houda Bouamor, Nizar Habash, et al.
2023. NADI 2023: The fourth nuanced Arabic di-
alect identification shared task. In Proceedings of the
First Arabic Natural Language Processing Confer-
ence, pages 600–613.
Muhammad Abdul-Mageed, Amr Keleg, AbdelRahim
Elmadany, Chiyu Zhang, Injy Hamed, Walid Magdy,
Houda Bouamor, and Nizar Habash. 2024. NADI
2024: The fifth nuanced Arabic dialect identification
shared task. In Proceedings of the Second Arabic
Natural Language Processing Conference.
Muhammad Abdul-Mageed, Chiyu Zhang, Abdelrahim
Elmadany, and Lyle Ungar. 2020. Toward micro-
dialect identification in diaglossic and code-switched
environments.
In Proceedings of EMNLP, pages
5855–5876.
Karima Abidi and Kamel Smaïli. 2017. An empiri-
cal study of the Algerian dialect of social network.
In Proceedings of the International Conference on
Natural Language, Signal and Speech Processing
(ICNLSSP).
Abdel-Rahman Abu-Melhim. 1991. Code-switching
and linguistic accommodation in Arabic. In Perspec-
tives on Arabic Linguistics III: Papers from the Third
Annual Symposium on Arabic Linguistics, volume 80,
pages 231–250. John Benjamins Publishing.
Wafia Adouane. 2020.
Natural Language Process-
ing for Low-resourced Code-switched Colloquial
Languages–The Case of Algerian Language. Phd
thesis, University of Gothenburg.
Wafia Adouane and Jean-Philippe Bernardy. 2020.
When is multi-task learning beneficial for low-
resource noisy code-switched user-generated Alge-
rian texts? In Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop
on Computational Approaches to Code Switching,
pages 17–25.
Wafia Adouane, Jean-Philippe Bernardy, and Simon
Dobnik. 2018a. Improving neural network perfor-
mance by injecting background knowledge: Detect-
ing code-switching and borrowing in Algerian texts.
In Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Compu-
tational Approaches to Linguistic Code-Switching,
pages 20–28.
Wafia Adouane, Jean-Philippe Bernardy, and Simon
Dobnik. 2019. Normalising non-standardised orthog-
raphy in Algerian code-switched user-generated data.
In Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop on Noisy User-
generated Text, pages 131–140.
Wafia Adouane and Simon Dobnik. 2017. Identification
of languages in Algerian Arabic multilingual docu-
ments. In Proceedings of the Third Arabic Natural
Language Processing Workshop, pages 1–8.
Wafia Adouane, Simon Dobnik, Jean-Philippe Bernardy,
and Nasredine Semmar. 2018b. A comparison of
character neural language model and bootstrapping
for language identification in multilingual noisy texts.
In Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Sub-
word/Character LEvel Models, pages 22–31.
Wafia Adouane, Samia Touileb, and Jean-Philippe
Bernardy. 2020. Identifying sentiments in Algerian
code-switched user-generated comments.
In Pro-
ceedings of LREC, pages 2698–2705.
Mohamed Aghzal and Asmaa Mourhir. 2021. Distri-
butional word representations for code-mixed text
in Moroccan Darija.
In Proceedings of the Fifth
International Conference on Arabic Computational
Linguistics (ACLing), pages 266–273.
Gustavo Aguilar, Fahad AlGhamdi, Victor Soto, Mona
Diab, Julia Hirschberg, and Thamar Solorio. 2018.
Overview of the CALCS 2018 shared task: Named

===== PAGE 11 =====
entity recognition on code-switched data. In Pro-
ceedings of the Third Workshop on Computational
Approaches to Linguistic Code-Switching.
Gustavo Aguilar, Sudipta Kar, and Thamar Solorio.
2020. LinCE: A centralized benchmark for linguistic
code-switching evaluation. In Proceedings of LREC,
pages 1803–1813.
Maryam Al-Ali. 2024. Enhancing automatic speech
recognition
for
Emirati-English
code-switched
speech. Master’s thesis, Mohamed bin Zayed Univer-
sity of Artificial Intelligence.
Maryam Khalifa Al Ali and Hanan Aldarmaki. 2024.
Mixat: A data set of bilingual Emirati-English speech.
In Proceedings of the Third Annual Meeting of the
Special Interest Group on Under-resourced Lan-
guages, pages 222–226.
Mohamed Al-Badrashiny and Mona Diab. 2016a. The
George Washington University system for the code-
switching workshop shared task 2016. In Proceed-
ings of The Second Workshop on Computational Ap-
proaches to Code Switching, pages 108–111.
Mohamed Al-Badrashiny and Mona Diab. 2016b. Lili:
A simple language independent approach for lan-
guage identification. In Proceedings of COLING,
pages 1211–1219.
Mohamed Al-Badrashiny, Heba Elfardy, and Mona Diab.
2015. Aida2: A hybrid approach for token and sen-
tence level dialect identification in Arabic. In Pro-
ceedings of the 19th Conference on Computational
Natural Language Learning, pages 42–51.
Mohamed Al-Badrashiny, Ramy Eskander, Nizar
Habash, and Owen Rambow. 2014.
Automatic
transliteration of romanized dialectal Arabic. In Pro-
ceedings of the 18th Conference on Computational
Natural Language Learning, pages 30–38.
Faisal Al-Shargi and Owen Rambow. 2015. DIWAN:
A dialectal word annotation tool for Arabic. In Pro-
ceedings of the Second Workshop on Arabic Natural
Language Processing, pages 49–58.
Majedah Abdullah Saleh Alaiyed. 2018. Diglossic code-
switching between Standard Arabic and Najdi Arabic
in religious discourse. Ph.D. thesis, Durham Univer-
sity.
Abdulkafi Albirini. 2011. The sociolinguistic functions
of codeswitching between standard Arabic and di-
alectal Arabic. Language in society, 40(5):537–562.
Fahad AlGhamdi. 2020. Towards a Unified Framework
for Computational Processing of Linguistic Code
Switching. Ph.D. thesis, The George Washington
University.
Fahad AlGhamdi and Mona Diab. 2019.
Leverag-
ing pretrained word embeddings for part-of-speech
tagging of code switching data.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1905.13359.
Fahad AlGhamdi, Giovanni Molina, Mona Diab,
Thamar Solorio, Abdelati Hawwari, Victor Soto, and
Julia Hirschberg. 2016. Part of speech tagging for
code switched data. In Proceedings of the Second
Workshop on Computational Approaches to Code
Switching, pages 98–107.
Munassir Alhamami. 2020. Switching of language va-
rieties in Saudi multilingual hospitals: insiders’ ex-
periences. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural
Development, 41(2):175–189.
Ali Alhazmi, Rohana Mahmud, Norisma Idris, Mo-
hamed Elhag Mohamed Abo, and Christopher Ifeanyi
Eke. 2024. Code-mixing unveiled: Enhancing the
hate speech detection in Arabic dialect tweets using
machine learning models. Plos one, 19(7):e0305657.
Ahmed Ali, Shammur Chowdhury, Amir Hussein, and
Yasser Hifny. 2021. Arabic code-switching speech
recognition using monolingual data. In Proceedings
of Interspeech, pages 3475–3479.
Mustafa Ali and Duaa Mohamed. 2018.
Investiga-
tion of linkage factors affecting code-switching in
Arabic-English speakers. Master’s thesis, University
of Toledo.
Nouf Aljasir. 2020. Arabic-English code-switching in
Saudi Arabia: Exploring bilinguals’ behavior and the
individual factors influencing it. Arab Journal for
Scientific Publishing (AJSP) ISSN, 2663:5798.
Etaf Alkhlaifat, Ping Yang, and Mohamed Moustakim.
2020. Code-switching between Arabic and English
in Jordanian GP consultations. Alkhlaifat, E., Yang,
P., & Moustakim, M.(2020). Code-switching between
Arabic and English in Jordanian GP consultations.
Crossroads: A Journal of English Studies, 30(3):4–
22.
Raghad Y Alkhudair. 2019. Professors’ and undergradu-
ate students’ perceptions and attitudes toward the use
of code-switching and its function in academic class-
rooms. International Journal of English Linguistics,
9(6):160–171.
Tasneem S Almasah, Gamal A Ebrahim, and Marwa A
Abdelaal. 2023. A code-switched Arabic-English
sentiment analysis approach based on deep-learning.
In Proceedings of the International Mobile, Intelli-
gent, and Ubiquitous Computing Conference (MI-
UCC), pages 452–457.
Jalal Haris Almathkuri. 2016. Investigating the motiva-
tion behind language alternation in the multilingual
medical workplace: a study of language practices at
King Abdul Aziz Specialist Hospital, Saudi Arabia.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Southampton.
Nada Saleh Alsamhan and Fatimah Almutrafi. 2022.
Codeswitching in online written communication
among Arabic English bilinguals: A sociolinguis-
tic perspective.
International Journal of Applied
Linguistics and English Literature, 11(2):79–90.
Ashwaq Alsulami. 2019. A sociolinguistic analysis of
the use of Arabizi in social media among Saudi Ara-
bians. International Journal of English Linguistics,
9(6):257–270.
Mohammed Altamimi, Osama Alruwaili, and William J
Teahan. 2018. BTAC: A twitter corpus for Arabic
dialect identification. In Proceedings of the Sixth
conference on computer-mediated communication
(CMC) and social media corpora (CMC-corpora
2018).

===== PAGE 12 =====
Mohammed Hamed R Altamimi. 2020. Categorisation
of Arabic Twitter Text. Ph.D. thesis, Bangor Univer-
sity.
Djegdjiga Amazouz. 2019.
Linguistic and pho-
netic investigations of French-Algerian Arabic code-
switching: Large corpus studies using automatic
speech. Ph.D. thesis, University of Texas at Austin,
United States.
Djegdjiga Amazouz, Martine Adda-Decker, and Lori
Lamel. 2017.
Addressing code-switching in
French/Algerian Arabic speech. In Proceedings of
Interspeech, pages 62–66.
Djegdjiga Amazouz, Martine Adda-Decker, and Lori
Lamel. 2018. The French-Algerian code-switching
triggered audio corpus (FACST). In Proceedings of
LREC, pages 1468–1473.
Mohammed Attia, Younes Samih, Ali Elkahky, Hamdy
Mubarak, Ahmed Abdelali, and Kareem Darwish.
2019. POS tagging for improving code-switching
identification in Arabic.
In Proceedings of the
Fourth Arabic Natural Language Processing Work-
shop, pages 18–29.
Mohammed Attia, Younes Samih, and Wolfgang Maier.
2018. GHHT at CALCS 2018: Named entity recog-
nition for dialectal Arabic using neural networks. In
Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Computational
Approaches to Linguistic Code-Switching, pages 98–
102.
Nahla Nola Bacha and Rima Bahous. 2011. Foreign
language education in lebanon: A context of cultural
and curricular complexities. Journal of Language
Teaching and Research, 2(6):1320.
As-Said Muhammad Badawi. 1973. Mustawayat Al-
Arabiyya Al-Mu’asira fi Misr. Dar al-maarif.
Mohamed Balabel, Injy Hamed, Slim Abdennadher,
Ngoc Thang Vu, and Özlem Çetino˘glu. 2020. Cairo
student code-switch (CSCS) corpus: An annotated
Egyptian Arabic-English corpus. In Proceedings of
LREC, pages 3973–3977.
Lamia Bach Baoueb. 2009. Social factors for code-
switching in tunisian business companies: A case
study.
Kfir Bar, Nachum Dershowitz, Lior Wolf, Yackov
Lubarsky, and Yaacov Choueka. 2015. Processing
Judeo-Arabic texts. In Proceedings of the First Inter-
national Conference on Arabic Computational Lin-
guistics (ACLing), pages 138–144.
Rizky Elzandi Barik and Dessi Puji Lestari. 2019. Text
corpus and acoustic model addition for Indonesian-
Arabic code-switching in automatic speech recog-
nition system. In Proceedings of the International
Conference of Advanced Informatics: Concepts, The-
ory and Applications (ICAICTA), pages 1–6.
Anshul Bawa, Pranav Khadpe, Pratik Joshi, Kalika Bali,
and Monojit Choudhury. 2020. Do multilingual users
prefer chat-bots that code-mix? let’s nudge and find
out! Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer
Interaction, 4(CSCW1):1–23.
Moulay Lahssan Baya Essayahi and Nassima Kerras.
2016. A sociolinguistic study of the Algerian lan-
guage. Arab World English Journal (AWEJ) Special
Issue on CALL, 3.
Ghazaleh Beigi and Huan Liu. 2020. A survey on pri-
vacy in social media: Identification, mitigation, and
applications. ACM Transactions on Data Science,
1(1):1–38.
Yassine Benajiba and Mona Diab. 2010. A web applica-
tion for dialectal Arabic text annotation. In Editors
& Workshop Chairs, page 91.
Abdelali Bentahila. 1983.
Motivations for code-
switching among Arabic-French bilinguals in Mo-
rocco. Language & communication, 3(3):233–243.
Ann Bies, Zhiyi Song, Mohamed Maamouri, Stephen
Grimes, Haejoong Lee, Jonathan Wright, Stephanie
Strassel, Nizar Habash, Ramy Eskander, and Owen
Rambow. 2014. Transliteration of arabizi into Ara-
bic orthography: Developing a parallel annotated
Arabizi-Arabic script SMS/chat corpus. In Proceed-
ings of the Workshop on Arabic Natural Language
Processing, pages 93–103.
Houda Bouamor, Nizar Habash, Mohammad Salameh,
Wajdi Zaghouani, Owen Rambow, Dana Abdul-
rahim, Ossama Obeid, Salam Khalifa, Fadhl Eryani,
Alexander Erdmann, and Kemal Oflazer. 2018. The
MADAR Arabic Dialect Corpus and Lexicon. In
Proceedings of LREC, pages 3387–3396.
Naaima Boudad, Rdouan Faizi, and Rachid Oulad
Haj Thami. 2023. Multilingual, monolingual and
mono-dialectal transfer learning for Moroccan Ara-
bic sentiment classification. Social Network Analysis
and Mining, 14(1):3.
Laurie Burchell, Alexandra Birch, Robert Thompson,
and Kenneth Heafield. 2024. Code-switched lan-
guage identification is harder than you think.
In
Proceedings of EACL, pages 646–658.
Özlem Çetino˘glu, Sarah Schulz, and Ngoc Thang Vu.
2016. Challenges of computational processing of
code-switching. In Proceedings of the Second Work-
shop on Computational Approaches to Code Switch-
ing, pages 1–11.
Shuguang Chen, Gustavo Aguilar, Anirudh Srinivasan,
Mona Diab, and Thamar Solorio. 2021. CALCS 2021
shared task: Machine translation for code-switched
data. In Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop on Com-
putational Approaches to Linguistic Code-Switching.
Song Chen, Dana Fore, Stephanie Strassel, Haejoong
Lee, and Jonathan Wright. 2017. BOLT Egyptian
Arabic SMS/chat and transliteration LDC2017T07.
Philadelphia: Linguistic Data Consortium.
Mohamed Amine Cheragui, Abdelhalim Hafedh Dahou,
and Amin Abdedaiem. 2023. Exploring BERT mod-
els for part-of-speech tagging in the Algerian dialect:
A comprehensive study. In Proceedings of the 6th
International Conference on Natural Language and
Speech Processing (ICNLSP 2023), pages 140–150.
Parul Chopra, Sai Krishna Rallabandi, Alan W Black,
and Khyathi Raghavi Chandu. 2021. Switch point
biased self-training: Re-purposing pretrained models

===== PAGE 13 =====
for code-switching. In Findings of EMNLP, pages
4389–4397.
Shammur A Chowdhury, Younes Samih, Mohamed El-
desouki, and Ahmed Ali. 2020. Effects of dialectal
code-switching on speech modules: A study using
Egyptian Arabic broadcast speech. In Proceedings
of Interspeech, pages 2382–2386.
Shammur Absar Chowdhury, Amir Hussein, Ahmed
Abdelali, and Ahmed Ali. 2021. Towards one model
to rule all: Multilingual strategy for dialectal code-
switching Arabic ASR.
In Proceedings of Inter-
speech.
Ryan Cotterell, Adithya Renduchintala, Naomi Saphra,
and Chris Callison-Burch. 2014. An Algerian Arabic-
French code-switched corpus.
In Workshop on
Free/Open-Source Arabic Corpora and Corpora Pro-
cessing Tools Workshop Programme, page 34.
Kareem Darwish. 2014. Arabizi detection and con-
version to arabic. In Proceedings of the Workshop
on Arabic Natural Language Processing, pages 217–
224.
Mona Diab, Mahmoud Ghoneim, Abdelati Hawwari, Fa-
had AlGhamdi, Nada AlMarwani, and Mohamed Al-
Badrashiny. 2019. Creating a large multi-layered rep-
resentational repository of linguistic code switched
Arabic data. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.13009.
A Seza Do˘gruöz, Sunayana Sitaram, Barbara Bullock,
and Almeida Jacqueline Toribio. 2021. A survey of
code-switching: Linguistic and social perspectives
for language technologies. In Proceedings of the 59th
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Confer-
ence on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 1654–1666.
Melinda Dooly and Ola Bakri. 2024. Code-switching
in a legal English class for Egyptian learners: A con-
versation analysis case study. Arab World English
Journal (AWEJ), 15(3):297–320.
Alessandro Duranti. 2008. A companion to linguistic
anthropology. John Wiley & Sons.
Alia El Bolock, Injy Hamed, Yomna Abdelrahman,
Ngoc Thang Vu, Cornelia Herbert, and Slim Ab-
dennadher. 2020. Who, when and why: The 3 ws
of code-switching. In Proceedings of the 18th In-
ternational Conference on Practical Applications of
Agents and Multi-Agent Systems, in the third Work-
shop on Character Computing (C2), pages 160–170.
Mahmoud El-Haj, Paul Rayson, and Mariam Aboelezz.
2018. Arabic dialect identification in the context
of bivalency and code-switching. In Proceedings of
LREC, pages 3622–3627.
Mohammed O Elfahal, Mohammed Mustafa, Mo-
hammed Elhafiz Mustafa, and Rashid A Saeed. 2020.
A framework for Sudanese Arabic–English mixed
speech processing. In Proceedings of the Interna-
tional Conference on Computing and Information
Technology (ICCIT-1441), pages 1–6.
Mohammed Osman Eltayeb Elfahal. 2019. Automatic
Recognition and Identification for Mixed Sudanese
Arabic–English Languages Speech. Ph.D. thesis, Su-
dan University of Science & Technology.
Heba Elfardy, Mohamed Al-Badrashiny, and Mona Diab.
2013. Code switch point detection in Arabic. In Pro-
ceedings of the International Conference on Appli-
cation of Natural Language to Information Systems,
pages 412–416.
Heba Elfardy, Mohamed Al-Badrashiny, and Mona Diab.
2014. AIDA: Identifying code switching in informal
Arabic text. In Proceedings of The First Workshop on
Computational Approaches to Code Switching, pages
94–101.
Heba Elfardy and Mona Diab. 2012. Token level identi-
fication of linguistic code switching. In Proceedings
of COLING, pages 287–296.
Hebatallah Elfardy. 2017. Perspective identification in
informal text. Phd thesis, Columbia University.
Abdelrahim Elmadany, Muhammad Abdul-Mageed,
et al. 2021. Investigating code-mixed Modern Stan-
dard Arabic-Egyptian to English machine translation.
In Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop on Compu-
tational Approaches to Linguistic Code-Switching,
pages 56–64.
Abdelrahim Elmadany, Muhammad Abdul-Mageed,
et al. 2022. AraT5: Text-to-text transformers for
arabic language generation. In Proceedings of ACL,
pages 628–647.
Iyad Elwy and Caroline Sabty. 2024. Takween: A com-
prehensive Arabic collection and annotation tool. In
Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on
AI in Computational Linguistics, pages 186–193.
Ramy Eskander, Mohamed Al-Badrashiny, Nizar
Habash, and Owen Rambow. 2014. Foreign words
and the automatic processing of Arabic social me-
dia text written in Roman script. In Proceedings of
The First Workshop on Computational Approaches to
Code Switching, pages 1–12.
Ramy Eskander, Shubhanshu Mishra, Sneha Mehta,
Sofia Samaniego, and Aria Haghighi. 2022. Towards
improved distantly supervised multilingual named-
entity recognition for tweets. In Proceedings of the
Second Workshop on Multi-lingual Representation
Learning (MRL), pages 115–124.
Salma Mohamed Farid. 2019. A case study of syntactic
patterns of Egyptian colloquial Arabic-English code-
switching. Master’s thesis, The American University
in Cairo.
Charles A Ferguson. 1959. Diglossia. word, 15(2):325–
340.
Marwa Gaser, Manuel Mager, Injy Hamed, Nizar
Habash, Slim Abdennadher, and Ngoc Thang Vu.
2023. Exploring segmentation approaches for neu-
ral machine translation of code-switched Egyptian
Arabic-English text. In Proceedings of EACL, pages
3523–3538.
Parvathy Geetha, Khyathi Chandu, and Alan W Black.
2018. Tackling code-switched NER: Participation
of CMU.
In Proceedings of the Third Workshop
on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Code-
Switching, pages 126–131.

===== PAGE 14 =====
Imane Guellil, Ahsan Adeel, Faical Azouaou, Mo-
hamed Boubred, Yousra Houichi, and Akram Ab-
delhaq Moumna. 2021. Sexism detection: The first
corpus in Algerian dialect with a code-switching
in Arabic/French and English.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2104.01443.
Nizar Habash, Owen Rambow, Mona Diab, and Reem
Kanjawi-Faraj. 2008. Guidelines for annotation of
arabic dialectness. In Proceedings of the LREC Work-
shop on HLT & NLP within the Arabic world, pages
49–53.
Nizar Habash, Abdelhadi Soudi, and Timothy Buckwal-
ter. 2007. On Arabic transliteration. Arabic computa-
tional morphology: Knowledge-based and empirical
methods, pages 15–22.
Rana Medhat Hafez. 2015.
Factors affecting code
switching between Arabic and English. M.A. the-
sis, American University in Cairo.
Soufiane Hajbi, Younes Chihab, Rachid Ed-Dali, and
Redouan Korchiyne. 2022. Natural language pro-
cessing based approach to overcome Arabizi and
code switching in social media Moroccan dialect.
In Proceedings of Advances in Information, Commu-
nication and Cybersecurity (ICI2C’21), pages 57–66.
Springer.
Injy Hamed. 2024. Neural-based NLP systems for code-
switched Arabic-English speech. Ph.D. thesis, Uni-
versity of Stuttgart.
Injy Hamed, Pavel Denisov, Chia-Yu Li, Mohamed
Elmahdy, Slim Abdennadher, and Ngoc Thang Vu.
2022a.
Investigations on speech recognition sys-
tems for low-resource dialectal Arabic–English code-
switching speech. Computer Speech & Language,
72:101278.
Injy Hamed, Alia El Bolock, Cornelia Herbert, Slim
Abdennadher, and Ngoc Thang Vu. 2022b. The who
in code-switching: A case study for predicting Egyp-
tian Arabic–English code-switching levels based on
character profiles. International Journal of Asian
Language Processing, 32(01):2250010.
Injy Hamed, Alia El Bolock, Nader Rizk, Cornelia Her-
bert, Slim Abdennadher, and Ngoc Thang Vu. 2021.
Predicting user code-switching level from sociologi-
cal and psychological profiles. In Proceedings of the
International Conference on Asian Language Pro-
cessing (IALP), pages 395–400.
Injy Hamed, Mohamed Elmahdy, and Slim Abdennad-
her. 2017. Building a first language model for code-
switch Arabic-English. In Proceedings of the Inter-
national Conference on Arabic Computational Lin-
guistics, pages 208–216.
Injy Hamed, Mohamed Elmahdy, and Slim Abdennad-
her. 2018a. Collection and analysis of code-switch
egyptian arabic-english speech corpus. In Proceed-
ings of LREC, pages 208–216.
Injy Hamed, Mohamed Elmahdy, and Slim Abdennad-
her. 2018b. Expanding n-grams for code-switch lan-
guage models. In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Advanced Intelligent Systems and In-
formatics, pages 221–229.
Injy Hamed, Fadhl Eryani, David Palfreyman, and Nizar
Habash. 2024. ZAEBUC-spoken: A multilingual
multidialectal Arabic-English speech corpus. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference
on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources
and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024), pages 17770–
17782.
Injy Hamed, Nizar Habash, Slim Abdennadher, and
Ngoc Thang Vu. 2022c. ArzEn-ST: A three-way
speech translation corpus for code-switched Egyp-
tian Arabic-English. In Proceedings of the Arabic
Natural Language Processing Workshop (WANLP),
pages 119–130.
Injy Hamed, Nizar Habash, Slim Abdennadher, and
Ngoc Thang Vu. 2023a. Investigating lexical replace-
ments for Arabic-English code-switched data aug-
mentation. In Proceedings of the Sixth Workshop
on Technologies for Machine Translation of Low-
Resource Languages (LoResMT), pages 86–100.
Injy Hamed, Nizar Habash, and Thang Vu. 2023b. Data
augmentation techniques for machine translation of
code-switched texts: A comparative study. In Find-
ings of EMNLP, pages 140–154.
Injy Hamed, Amir Hussein, Oumnia Chellah, Shammur
Chowdhury, Hamdy Mubarak, Sunayana Sitaram,
Nizar Habash, and Ahmed Ali. 2023c. Benchmark-
ing evaluation metrics for code-switching automatic
speech recognition. In Proceedings of SLT, pages
999–1005.
Injy Hamed, Ngoc Thang Vu, and Slim Abdennadher.
2020. ArzEn: A speech corpus for code-switched
Egyptian Arabic-English. In Proceedings of LREC,
pages 4237–4246.
Injy Hamed, Moritz Zhu, Mohamed Elmahdy, Slim
Abdennadher, and Ngoc Thang Vu. 2019.
Code-
switching language modeling with bilingual word em-
beddings: A case study for Egyptian Arabic-English.
In Proceedings of the International Conference on
Speech and Computer, pages 160–170.
Ahmed Heakl, Youssef Zaghloul, Mennatullah Ali, Ra-
nia Hossam, and Walid Gomaa. 2024. ArzEn-LLM:
Code-switched Egyptian Arabic-English translation
and speech recognition using LLMs. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.18120.
Roberto R Heredia and Jeanette Altarriba. 2001. Bilin-
gual language mixing: Why do bilinguals code-
switch? Current directions in psychological science,
10(5):164–168.
Daniel Hershcovich, Stella Frank, Heather Lent,
Miryam de Lhoneux, Mostafa Abdou, Stephanie
Brandl, Emanuele Bugliarello, Laura Cabello Pi-
queras, Ilias Chalkidis, Ruixiang Cui, et al. 2022.
Challenges and strategies in cross-cultural NLP. In
Proceedings of ACL, pages 6997–7013.
Amir Hussein, Shammur Absar Chowdhury, Ahmed
Abdelali, Najim Dehak, Ahmed Ali, and Sanjeev
Khudanpur. 2023. Textual data augmentation for
Arabic-English code-switching speech recognition.
In Proceedings of SLT, pages 777–784.

===== PAGE 15 =====
Amir Hussein, Dorsa Zeinali, Ondˇrej Klejch, Matthew
Wiesner, Brian Yan, Shammur Chowdhury, Ahmed
Ali, Shinji Watanabe, and Sanjeev Khudanpur. 2024.
Speech collage: code-switched audio generation by
collaging monolingual corpora. In Proceedings of
ICASSP, pages 12006–12010.
Manal A Ismail. 2015. The sociolinguistic dimensions
of code-switching between Arabic and English by
saudis. International Journal of English Linguistics,
5(5):99.
Aaron Jaech, George Mulcaire, Mari Ostendorf, and
Noah A Smith. 2016. A neural model for language
identification in code-switched tweets. In Proceed-
ings of the Second Workshop on Computational Ap-
proaches to Code Switching, pages 60–64.
Devanshu Jain, Maria Kustikova, Mayank Darbari,
Rishabh Gupta, and Stephen Mayhew. 2018. Sim-
ple features for strong performance on named entity
recognition in code-switched twitter data. In Pro-
ceedings of the Third Workshop on Computational
Approaches to Linguistic Code-Switching, pages 103–
109.
Naman Jain and Riyaz Ahmad Bhat. 2014. Language
identification in code-switching scenario. In Pro-
ceedings of the First Workshop on Computational
Approaches to Code Switching, pages 87–93.
Florian Janke, Tongrui Li, Eric Rincón, Gualberto A
Guzman, Barbara Bullock, and Almeida Jacqueline
Toribio. 2018. The University of Texas system sub-
mission for the code-switching workshop shared task
2018. In Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Com-
putational Approaches to Linguistic Code-Switching,
pages 120–125.
Mohamed Amine Jerbi, Hadhemi Achour, and Emna
Souissi. 2019. Sentiment analysis of code-switched
Tunisian dialect: Exploring RNN-based techniques.
In Proceedings of the International Conference on
Arabic Language Processing, pages 122–131.
Karima Kadaoui, Maryam Ali, Hawau Toyin, Ibrahim
Mohammed, and Hanan Aldarmaki. 2024.
Poly-
WER: A holistic evaluation framework for code-
switched speech recognition. In Findings of EMNLP,
pages 6144–6153.
Tom Kalkman. 2024. Detecting and analyzing code-
switching behaviour in a Moroccan-Dutch dataset
using transformer architectures.
Master’s thesis,
Utrecht University.
Amr Keleg, Sharon Goldwater, and Walid Magdy. 2023.
ALDi: Quantifying the Arabic level of dialectness of
text. In Proceedings of EMNLP, pages 10597–10611.
Amr Keleg and Walid Magdy. 2023. Arabic dialect
identification under scrutiny: Limitations of single-
label classification. In Proceedings of the Arabic
Natural Language Processing Conference, pages 385–
398.
Geoffrey Khan, Michael P Streck, and Janet CE Wat-
son. 2011. The Semitic languages: An international
handbook, volume 36. Walter de Gruyter.
Simran Khanuja, Sandipan Dandapat, Anirudh Srini-
vasan, Sunayana Sitaram, and Monojit Choudhury.
2020.
GLUECoS: An evaluation benchmark for
code-switched nlp. In Proceedings of ACL, pages
3575–3585.
Md Tawkat Islam Khondaker, Numaan Naeem, Fa-
timah Khan, Abdelrahim Elmadany, and Muhammad
Abdul-Mageed. 2024. Benchmarking LLaMA-3 on
Arabic language generation tasks. In Proceedings
of The Second Arabic Natural Language Processing
Conference, pages 283–297.
Md Tawkat Islam Khondaker, Abdul Waheed, Muham-
mad Abdul-Mageed, et al. 2023. GPTAraEval: A
comprehensive evaluation of ChatGPT on Arabic
NLP. In Proceedings of EMNLP, pages 220–247.
Abdullah A Khuwaileh. 2003. Code switching and mul-
tilingualism in a small multi-ethnic group society
(uae). Journal of Language for International Busi-
ness, 14(2):32–49.
Levi King, Eric Baucom, Timur Gilmanov, Sandra
K¨"ubler, Daniel Whyatt, Wolfgang Maier, and Paul
Rodrigues. 2014. The IUCL+ system: Word-level
language identification via extended markov models.
In Proceedings of the First Workshop on Computa-
tional Approaches to Code Switching, pages 102–
106.
Małgorzata Knia´z and Magdalena Zawrotna. 2021.
Embedded English verbs in Arabic-English code-
switching in egypt. International Journal of Bilin-
gualism, 25(3):622–639.
Prashant
Kodali,
Anmol
Goel,
Likhith
Asapu,
Vamshi Krishna Bonagiri, Anirudh Govil, Monojit
Choudhury, Manish Shrivastava, and Ponnurangam
Kumaraguru. 2024. From human judgements to pre-
dictive models: Unravelling acceptability in code-
mixed sentences. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.05572.
Atharva Kulkarni, Ajinkya Kulkarni, Miguel Couceiro,
and Hanan Aldarmaki. 2023. Adapting the adapters
for code-switching in multilingual ASR.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.07423.
Garry Kuwanto, Chaitanya Agarwal, Genta Indra
Winata, and Derry Tanti Wijaya. 2024. Linguistics
theory meets LLM: Code-switched text generation
via equivalence constrained large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.22660.
Houssam Eddine-Othman Lachemat, Akli Abbas,
Nourredine Oukas,
Yassine El Kheir,
Samia
Haboussi, and Absar Showdhury Shammur. 2024.
CAFE: a novel code switching dataset for Alge-
rian dialect French and English.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.13424.
Wuwei Lan, Yang Chen, Wei Xu, and Alan Ritter. 2020.
An empirical study of pre-trained transformers for
Arabic information extraction. In Proceedings of
EMNLP, pages 4727–4734.
Chu-Cheng Lin, Waleed Ammar, Lori Levin, and Chris
Dyer. 2014. The CMU submission for the shared task
on language identification in code-switched data. In
Proceedings of the First Workshop on Computational
Approaches to Code Switching, pages 80–86.
Khaled Lounnas, Mourad Abbas, and Mohamed Li-
chouri. 2021. Towards phone number recognition

===== PAGE 16 =====
for code switched Algerian dialect. In Proceedings
of the Fourth International Conference on Natural
Language and Speech Processing (ICNLSP 2021),
pages 290–294.
M’hamed Mataoui,
Omar Zelmati,
and Madiha
Boumechache. 2016. A proposed lexicon-based sen-
timent analysis approach for the vernacular Algerian
Arabic. Research in Computing Science, 110(1):55–
70.
Mohamed Amine Menacer, David Langlois, Denis
Jouvet, Dominique Fohr, Odile Mella, and Kamel
Smaïli. 2019. Machine translation on a parallel code-
switched corpus. In Proceedings of the Canadian
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages 426–432.
Springer.
Sarina Meyer, Florian Lux, Pavel Denisov, Julia Koch,
Pascal Tilli, and Ngoc Thang Vu. 2022. Speaker
anonymization with phonetic intermediate represen-
tations. In Proceedings of Interspeech, pages 4925–
4929.
Sarina Meyer, Florian Lux, Julia Koch, Pavel Denisov,
Pascal Tilli, and Ngoc Thang Vu. 2023a. Prosody
is not identity: A speaker anonymization approach
using prosody cloning. In Proceedings of ICASSP,
pages 1–5.
Sarina Meyer, Florian Lux, and Ngoc Thang Vu.
2024. Probing the feasibility of multilingual speaker
anonymization. In Proceedings of Interspeech, pages
4448–4452.
Sarina Meyer, Pascal Tilli, Pavel Denisov, Florian Lux,
Julia Koch, and Ngoc Thang Vu. 2023b. Anonymiz-
ing speech with generative adversarial networks to
preserve speaker privacy. In Proceedings of SLT,
pages 912–919.
Kurt Micallef, Nizar Habash, Claudia Borg, Fadhl
Eryani, and Houda Bouamor. 2024. Cross-lingual
transfer from related languages:
Treating low-
resource Maltese as multilingual code-switching. In
Proceedings of EACL, pages 1014–1025.
Daniel Weisberg Mitelman, Nachum Dershowitz,
and Kfir Bar. 2024.
Code-switching and back-
transliteration using a bilingual model. In Findings
of EACL, pages 1501–1511.
Iyad Ahmad Hamdan Mkahal. 2016. Code switching
as a linguistic phenomenon among Palestinian En-
glish Arabic bilinguals with reference to translation.
Master’s thesis, An-Najah National University.
Djegdjiga Mohdeb-Amazouz, Adda-Decker Martine,
and Lori Lamel. 2016.
Arabic-French code-
switching across Maghreb Arabic dialects: a quanti-
tative analysis. In Proceedings of the Corpus-driven
Studies of Heterogeneous and Multilingual Corpora
Workshop.
Giovanni
Molina,
Fahad
AlGhamdi,
Mahmoud
Ghoneim,
Abdelati
Hawwari,
Nicolas
Rey-
Villamizar, Mona Diab, and Thamar Solorio. 2016.
Overview for the second shared task on language
identification in code-switched data.
In Proceed-
ings of the Second Workshop on Computational
Approaches to Code Switching, pages 40–49.
Sneha Mondal, Shreya Pathak, Preethi Jyothi, Aravin-
dan Raghuveer, et al. 2022. CoCoa: An encoder-
decoder model for controllable code-switched gener-
ation. In Proceedings of EMNLP, pages 2466–2479.
Hamdy Mubarak, Amir Hussein, Shammur Absar
Chowdhury, and Ahmed Ali. 2021. QASR: QCRI
Aljazeera speech resource a large scale annotated
Arabic speech corpus. In Proceedings of the 59th An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Confer-
ence on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 2274–2285.
Benjamin Muller, Benoit Sagot, and Djamé Seddah.
2020. Can multilingual language models transfer
to an unseen dialect? a case study on north african
arabizi. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.00318.
Mumtaz Begum Mustafa,
Mansoor Ali Yusoof,
Hasan Kahtan Khalaf, Ahmad Abdel Rahman Mah-
moud Abushariah, Miss Laiha Mat Kiah, Hua Nong
Ting, and Saravanan Muthaiyah. 2022.
Code-
switching in automatic speech recognition: The
issues and future directions.
Applied Sciences,
12(19):9541.
Zahra Mustafa and Mahmoud Al-Khatib. 1994. Code-
mixing of Arabic and English in teaching science.
World Englishes, 13(2):215–224.
Carol Myers-Scotton. 1997. Duelling languages: Gram-
matical structure in codeswitching. Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
El Moatez Billah Nagoudi, AbdelRahim Elmadany,
Ahmed El-Shangiti, and Muhammad Abdul-Mageed.
2023. Dolphin: A challenging and diverse bench-
mark for Arabic NLG. In Findings of EMNLP, pages
1404–1422.
Abdulfattah Omar and Mohammed Ilyas. 2018. The
sociolinguistic significance of the attitudes towards
code-switching in Saudi Arabia academia. Interna-
tional Journal of English Linguistics, 8(3).
Shana Poplack. 1980. Sometimes i’ll start a sentence in
spanish y termino en espanol: toward a typology of
code-switching. Linguistics, 18(7-8):581–618.
Rebekah Elizabeth Post. 2015. The impact of social
factors on the use of Arabic-French code-switching
in speech and IM in Morocco. Ph.D. thesis, The
University of Texas at Austin.
SaiKrishna Rallabandi, Sunayana Sitaram, and Alan W
Black. 2018. Automatic detection of code-switching
style from acoustics. In Proceedings of the Third
Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguis-
tic Code-Switching, pages 76–81.
Houda Saadane, Hosni Seffih, Christian Fluhr, Khalid
Choukri, and Nasredine Semmar. 2018. Automatic
identification of Maghreb dialects using a dictionary-
based approach. In Proceedings of LREC, pages
3638–3644.
Hadeel Saadany and Constantin Orasan. 2020. Is it great
or terrible? preserving sentiment in neural machine
translation of Arabic reviews. In Proceedings of the
Fifth Arabic Natural Language Processing Workshop,
pages 24–37.

===== PAGE 17 =====
Caroline Sabty. 2024.
Computational approaches
to Arabic-English code-switching. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.13318.
Caroline Sabty, Mohamed Elmahdy, and Slim Abden-
nadher. 2019a. Named entity recognition on Arabic-
English code-mixed data. In Proceedings of the 13th
International Conference on Semantic Computing
(ICSC), pages 93–97.
Caroline Sabty, Mohamed Islam, and Slim Abden-
nadher. 2020. Contextual embeddings for Arabic-
English code-switched data. In Proceedings of the
Fifth Arabic Natural Language Processing Workshop,
pages 215–225.
Caroline Sabty, Islam Mesabah, Özlem Çetino˘glu, and
Slim Abdennadher. 2021a. Language identification
of intra-word code-switching for Arabic–English. Ar-
ray, 12:100104.
Caroline Sabty, Islam Omar, Fady Wasfalla, Mohamed
Islam, and Slim Abdennadher. 2021b. Data augmen-
tation techniques on Arabic data for named entity
recognition. In Proceedings of the International Con-
ference on AI in Computational Linguistics, volume
189, pages 292–299.
Caroline Sabty, Ahmed Sherif, Mohamed Elmahdy, and
Slim Abdennadher. 2019b. Techniques for named
entity recognition on Arabic-English code-mixed
data. International Journal of Transdisciplinary AI,
1(1):44–63.
Younes Samih. 2017. Dialectal Arabic processing using
deep learning. Ph.D. thesis, Dissertation, Düsseldorf,
Heinrich-Heine-Universität, 2017.
Younes Samih, Suraj Maharjan, Mohammed Attia,
Laura Kallmeyer, and Thamar Solorio. 2016. Multi-
lingual code-switching identification via LSTM recur-
rent neural networks. In Proceedings of the Second
Workshop on Computational Approaches to Code
Switching, pages 50–59.
Younes Samih and Wolfgang Maier. 2016a. An Arabic-
Moroccan Darija code-switched corpus. In Proceed-
ings of LREC, pages 4170–4175.
Younes Samih and Wolfgang Maier. 2016b. Detecting
code-switching in Moroccan Arabic social media.
SocialNLP@ IJCAI-2016, New York.
Djamé Seddah, Farah Essaidi, Amal Fethi, Matthieu
Futeral, Benjamin Muller, Pedro Javier Ortiz Suárez,
Benoît Sagot, and Abhishek Srivastava. 2020. Build-
ing a user-generated content North-African Arabizi
treebank: Tackling hell.
In Proceedings of ACL,
pages 1139–1150.
Ayan Sengupta,
Md Shad Akhtar,
and Tanmoy
Chakraborty. 2023.
Persona-aware generative
model for code-mixed language.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.02915.
Ali Shazal, Aiza Usman, and Nizar Habash. 2020. A
unified model for Arabizi detection and translitera-
tion using sequence-to-sequence models. In Proceed-
ings of the Fifth Arabic Natural Language Processing
Workshop (WANLP), pages 167–177.
Safaa Shehadi and Shuly Wintner. 2022. Identifying
code-switching in Arabizi. In Proceedings of the Sev-
enth Arabic Natural Language Processing Workshop
(WANLP), pages 194–204.
Ahmed Sherif and Caroline Sabty. 2024. Sentiment
analysis for Egyptian Arabic-English code-switched
data using traditional neural models and advanced
language models. In International Conference on
Speech and Computer, pages 54–69.
Prajwol Shrestha. 2016. Codeswitching detection via
lexical features in conditional random fields. In Pro-
ceedings of the Second Workshop on Computational
Approaches to Code Switching, pages 121–126.
Sunayana Sitaram, Khyathi Raghavi Chandu, Sai Kr-
ishna Rallabandi, and Alan W Black. 2019. A survey
of code-switched speech and language processing.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.00784.
Kamel Smaïli, Hamza Anissa, Langlois David, and
Amazouz Djegdjiga. 2024. BOUTEF: Bolstering
our understanding through an elaborated fake news
corpus. In Proceedings of the Eighth International
Conference on Arabic Language Processing.
Thamar
Solorio,
Elizabeth
Blair,
Suraj
Mahar-
jan,
Steven Bethard,
Mona Diab,
Mahmoud
Ghoneim, Abdelati Hawwari, Fahad AlGhamdi, Julia
Hirschberg, Alison Chang, et al. 2014. Overview
for the first shared task on language identification
in code-switched data. In Proceedings of the First
Workshop on Computational Approaches to Code
Switching, pages 62–72.
Thamar Solorio and Yang Liu. 2008. Learning to predict
code-switching points. In Proceedings of EMNLP,
pages 973–981.
Ondˇrej Sotoláˇr, Jaromír Plhák, and David Šmahel. 2021.
Towards personal data anonymization for social mes-
saging. In International Conference on Text, Speech,
and Dialogue, pages 281–292.
Sara Stefanich, Jennifer Cabrelli, Dustin Hilderman,
and John Archibald. 2019. The morphophonology
of intraword codeswitching: Representation and pro-
cessing. Frontiers in Communication, 4:54.
Hanada Taha Thomure. 2019. Arabic language educa-
tion in the UAE: Choosing the right drivers. Edu-
cation in the United Arab Emirates: Innovation and
Transformation, pages 75–93.
Taghreed Tarmom, William Teahan, Eric Atwell, and
Mohammad Ammar Alsalka. 2020. Compression
versus traditional machine learning classifiers to de-
tect code-switching in varieties and dialects: Ara-
bic as a case study. Natural Language Engineering,
pages 1–14.
Juan Antonio Thomas and Lotfi Sayahi. 2019. Lan-
guage contact phenomena in three Aljamiado texts:
Religion as a sociolinguistic factor.
eHumanista:
Journal of Iberian Studies, 41:142–154.
Taha Tobaili, Miriam Fernandez, Harith Alani, Sanaa
Sharafeddine, Hazem Hajj, and Goran Glavaš. 2019.
Senzi: A sentiment analysis lexicon for the Latinised
Arabic (Arabizi). In Proceedings of the International

===== PAGE 18 =====
Conference on Recent Advances in Natural Language
Processing (RANLP 2019), pages 1203–1211.
Samia Touileb and Jeremy Barnes. 2021. The interplay
between language similarity and script on a novel
multi-layer Algerian dialect corpus. In Findings of
ACL-IJCNLP, pages 3700–3712.
Enes Yavuz Ugan, Christian Huber, Juan Hussain, and
Alexander Waibel. 2022. Language-agnostic code-
switching in sequence-to-sequence speech recogni-
tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.08992.
Clare R Voss, Stephen Tratz, Jamal Laoudi, and Dou-
glas M Briesch. 2014. Finding Romanized Arabic di-
alect in code-mixed tweets. In Proceedings of LREC,
pages 2249–2253.
Ngoc Thang Vu, Heike Adel, and Tanja Schultz. 2013.
An investigation of code-switching attitude depen-
dent language modeling. In Proceedings of the In-
ternational Conference on Statistical Language and
Speech Processing, pages 297–308.
Changhan Wang, Kyunghyun Cho, and Douwe Kiela.
2018. Code-switched named entity recognition with
embedding attention. In Proceedings of the Third
Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguis-
tic Code-Switching, pages 154–158.
Genta Winata, Alham Fikri Aji, Zheng Xin Yong, and
Thamar Solorio. 2023. The decades progress on code-
switching research in NLP: A systematic survey on
trends and challenges. In Findings of ACL, pages
2936–2978.
Genta Indra Winata, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Zihan Liu,
Zhaojiang Lin, Andrea Madotto, and Pascale Fung.
2021. Are multilingual models effective in code-
switching?
In Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop
on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Code-
Switching, pages 142–153.
Ping Yang. 2021. A Sociolinguistic Study of Doctor-
Patient Interaction in Healthcare Settings: A Jorda-
nian Perspective. Ph.D. thesis, Sydney University.
Zheng Xin Yong, Ruochen Zhang, Jessica Forde, Skyler
Wang, Arjun Subramonian, Holy Lovenia, Samuel
Cahyawijaya, Genta Winata, Lintang Sutawika, Jan
Christian Blaise Cruz, et al. 2023. Prompting mul-
tilingual large language models to generate code-
mixed texts: The case of South East Asian lan-
guages. In Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on Com-
putational Approaches to Linguistic Code-Switching,
pages 43–63.
Zuhair D Zaghlool and Norah M Altamimi. 2023. Saudi
EFL teachers’ and students’ perceptions towards us-
ing English-Arabic code switching as a teaching and
learning strategy. Journal of Language Teaching and
Research, 14(4):1049–1057.
Bin Zhou, Jian Pei, and WoShun Luk. 2008. A brief sur-
vey on anonymization techniques for privacy preserv-
ing publishing of social network data. ACM Sigkdd
Explorations Newsletter, 10(2):12–22.
Inès Zribi, Mariem Ellouze, Lamia Hadrich Belguith,
and Philippe Blache. 2015. Spoken Tunisian Arabic
corpus “STAC”: transcription and annotation. Re-
search in computing science, 90:123–135.
Inès Zribi, Inès Kammoun, Mariem Ellouze, L Belguith,
and Philippe Blache. 2016. Sentence boundary de-
tection for transcribed Tunisian Arabic. Bochumer
Linguistische Arbeitsberichte, 323.
A
Language and Dialect Codes
We outline the codes we use for languages and
dialects in Table 4.
B
Overview on Empirical Papers
In Tables 5-8, we provide a list of the empirical
papers, specifying the covered language pairs, for
text-based and speech-based NLP tasks.
C
Overview on Resource Papers
In Tables 9-11, we provide a list of the resource
papers. For each text-based and speech-based NLP
task, we specify the language pairs covered by the
collected resources presented in the papers.
Language/Dialect
Code
Arabic
ARA
Dialectal Arabic
DA
Modern Standard Arabic
MSA
Algerian Arabic
ALG
Egyptian Arabic
EGY
Emirati Arabic
EMI
Iraqi Arabic
IRQ
Jordanian Arabic
JOR
Lebanese Arabic
LEB
Levantine Arabic
LEV
Libyian Arabic
LIB
Moroccan Arabic
MOR
North African Arabic
NOR
Palestinian Arabic
PAL
Saudi Arabian Arabic
SAU
Sudanese Arabic
SUD
Tunisian Arabic
TUN
Foreign Language
FOR
Aramaic
ARC
Berber
BER
Dutch
NLD
English
ENG
French
FRA
German
DEU
Hebrew
HEB
Indonesian
IND
Judeo Arabic
JRB
Spanish
SPA
Table 4: The list of codes we use for languages and
dialects throughout the paper.

===== PAGE 19 =====
DA-
Foreign
MSA-
Foreign
ARA-
Foreign
MSA-
DA
MSA-DA-
Foreign
Language Details
Word-level Language Identification
(Eskander et al., 2014)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Voss et al., 2014)
✓
MOR-ENG-FRA
(Bar et al., 2015)
✓
JRB-HEB
(Aghzal and Mourhir, 2021)
✓
MOR-ENG-FRA
(Mitelman et al., 2024)
✓
JRB-HEB/ARC
(Kalkman, 2024)
✓
MOR-NLD
(Darwish, 2014)
✓
ARA-ENG
(Sabty et al., 2021a)
✓
ARA-ENG
(Shehadi and Wintner, 2022)
✓
ARA-ENG-FRA
(Elfardy and Diab, 2012)
✓
MSA-EGY, MSA-LEV
(Elfardy et al., 2013)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Elfardy et al., 2014)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Solorio et al., 2014)
✓
MSA-EGY
(King et al., 2014)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Lin et al., 2014)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Jain and Bhat, 2014)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Al-Badrashiny et al., 2015)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Al-Badrashiny and Diab, 2016a)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Molina et al., 2016)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Samih et al., 2016)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Shrestha, 2016)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Jaech et al., 2016)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Attia et al., 2019)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Aguilar et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Al-Badrashiny and Diab, 2016b) ✓
✓
MSA-EGY/LEV/GLF, DA-ENG
(Saadane et al., 2018)
✓
✓
MSA,
ALG/TUN/MOR/EGY,
ENG/FRA
(Samih and Maier, 2016b)
✓
MSA-MOR-FRA/SPA/BER
(Adouane and Dobnik, 2017)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
(Adouane et al., 2018b)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
(Adouane et al., 2018a)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
(Adouane and Bernardy, 2020)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
(Tarmom et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY-SAU-ENG
Named Entity Recognition
(Sabty et al., 2019a)
✓
✓
MSA-ENG, EGY-ENG
(Sabty et al., 2019b)
✓
✓
MSA-ENG, EGY-ENG
(Sabty et al., 2020)
✓
✓
MSA-ENG, EGY-ENG
(Sabty et al., 2021b)
✓
✓
MSA-ENG, EGY-ENG
(Aguilar et al., 2018)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Wang et al., 2018)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Jain et al., 2018)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Geetha et al., 2018)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Janke et al., 2018)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Attia et al., 2018)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Aguilar et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Chopra et al., 2021)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Winata et al., 2021)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Eskander et al., 2022)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Adouane and Bernardy, 2020)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
Table 5: List of empirical papers for the stated text-based tasks.

===== PAGE 20 =====
DA-
Foreign
MSA-
Foreign
ARA-
Foreign
MSA-
DA
MSA-DA-
Foreign
Language Details
Machine Translation
(Hamed et al., 2022c)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Hamed et al., 2023b)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Gaser et al., 2023)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Hamed et al., 2023a)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Khondaker et al., 2023)
✓
ALG-FRA, JOR-ENG
(Nagoudi et al., 2023)
✓
ALG/MOR/TUN-FRA,
EGY/JOR/PAL-ENG
(Khondaker et al., 2024)
✓
ALG/MOR/TUN-FRA,
EGY/JOR/PAL-ENG
(Heakl et al., 2024)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Menacer et al., 2019)
✓
MSA-ENG
(Elmadany et al., 2022)
✓
✓
ALG-FRA, JOR-ENG,
(synthetic) MSA-ENG/FRA
(Saadany and Orasan, 2020)
✓
MSA-DA (DA mostly EGY)
(Elmadany et al., 2021)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Chen et al., 2021)
✓
MSA-EGY
Sentiment Analysis
(Tobaili et al., 2019)
✓
LEB-ENG
(Touileb and Barnes, 2021)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Boudad et al., 2023)
✓
MOR-FOR
(Sherif and Sabty, 2024)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Sabty et al., 2020)
✓
✓
MSA-ENG, EGY-ENG
(Almasah et al., 2023)
✓
ARA-FOR
(Jerbi et al., 2019)
✓
MSA-TUN-ENG-FRA
(Mataoui et al., 2016)
✓
MSA-ALG-FRA
(Adouane et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-ALG-FRA-BER
(Adouane and Bernardy, 2020)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
Part-of-Speech Tagging
(Muller et al., 2020)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Seddah et al., 2020)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Touileb and Barnes, 2021)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Cheragui et al., 2023)
✓
ALG-FOR
(AlGhamdi et al., 2016)
✓
MSA-EGY
(AlGhamdi and Diab, 2019)
✓
MSA-EGY/LEV
Sentence-level Language Identification
(Shehadi and Wintner, 2022)
✓
ARA-ENG-FRA
(Al-Badrashiny et al., 2015)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Burchell et al., 2024)
✓
MSA-EGY
(El-Haj et al., 2018)
✓
MSA-GLF/LEV/TUN/EGY
(Altamimi, 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY/GLF/IRQ
MSA-LEV/Maghrebi
Table 6: List of empirical papers for the stated text-based tasks.

===== PAGE 21 =====
DA-
Foreign
MSA-
Foreign
ARA-
Foreign
MSA-
DA
MSA-DA-
Foreign
Language Details
Transliteration
(Al-Badrashiny et al., 2014)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Eskander et al., 2014)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Shazal et al., 2020)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Mitelman et al., 2024)
✓
JRB-HEB/ARC
(Darwish, 2014)
✓
ARA-ENG
Language Modeling
(Excluding language modeling conducted as part of ASR efforts)
(Hamed et al., 2019)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Hamed et al., 2017)
✓
MSA-ENG
(Hamed et al., 2018b)
✓
MSA-ENG
(Lan et al., 2020)
✓
ARA-ENG
Abusive Language Detection
(Guellil et al., 2021)
✓
ALG-ENG-FRA
(Alhazmi et al., 2024)
✓
ARA-FOR
Sentence-level Micro-Dialect Identification
(Abainia, 2018)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Abdul-Mageed et al., 2020)
✓
ARA-FOR
Spelling Correction and Text Normalization
(Adouane et al., 2019)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
(Adouane and Bernardy, 2020)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
Dependency Parsing
(Muller et al., 2020)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Seddah et al., 2020)
✓
ALG-FRA
Tokenization
(Gaser et al., 2023)
✓
EGY-ENG
Fake News Detection
(Abdelouahab and Smaïli, 2024)
✓
MSA-TUN/ALG-ENG-FRA
Word Analogy
(Aghzal and Mourhir, 2021)
✓
MOR-ENG-FRA
Topic Modeling
(Touileb and Barnes, 2021)
✓
ALG-FRA
Question Answering
(Sabty et al., 2020)
✓
✓
MSA-ENG, EGY-ENG
Table 7: List of empirical papers for the stated text-based tasks.

===== PAGE 22 =====
DA-
Foreign
MSA-
Foreign
ARA-
Foreign
MSA-
DA
MSA-DA-
Foreign
Language Details
Automatic Speech Recognition
(Elfahal, 2019)
✓
SUD-ENG
(Elfahal et al., 2020)
✓
SUD-ENG
(Lounnas et al., 2021)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Hamed et al., 2022a)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Hamed et al., 2022c)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Hamed et al., 2023a)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Abdallah et al., 2024)
✓
TUN-ENG-FRA
(Heakl et al., 2024)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Al Ali and Aldarmaki, 2024) ✓
EMI-ENG
(Al-Ali, 2024)
✓
EMI-ENG
(Lachemat et al., 2024)
✓
ALG-ENG-FRA
(Barik and Lestari, 2019)
✓
ARA-IND
(Ugan et al., 2022)
✓
ARA-DEU
(Ali et al., 2021)
✓
ARA-ENG/FRA
(Kulkarni et al., 2023)
✓
ARA-ENG
(Hussein et al., 2023)
✓
ARA-ENG
(Hussein et al., 2024)
✓
ARA-ENG
(Kadaoui et al., 2024)
✓
ARA-ENG
(Chowdhury et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Chowdhury et al., 2021)
✓
✓
MSA-EGY, ARA-ENG/FRA
(Mubarak et al., 2021)
✓
✓
MSA-DA, ARA-ENG/FRA
(Abdelali et al., 2024)
✓
✓
ARA-ENG/FRA, MSA-DA
(DA: EGY, GLF, LEV, NOR)
Speech Translation
(Hamed et al., 2023a)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Hamed et al., 2022c)
✓
EGY-ENG
Word-level Language Identification
(Chowdhury et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY
Sentence Boundary Detection
(Zribi et al., 2016)
✓
MSA-TUN-FRA
Table 8: List of empirical papers for the stated speech-based tasks.

===== PAGE 23 =====
DA-
Foreign
MSA-
Foreign
ARA-
Foreign
MSA-
DA
MSA-DA-
Foreign
Language Details
Word-level Language Identification
(Voss et al., 2014)
✓
MOR-ENG-FRA
(Cotterell et al., 2014)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Amazouz et al., 2017)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Amazouz et al., 2018)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Abainia, 2019)
✓
ALG-ENG/FRA
(Seddah et al., 2020)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Kalkman, 2024)
✓
MOR-NLD
(Darwish, 2014)
✓
ARA-ENG
(Sabty et al., 2021a)
✓
ARA-ENG
(Shehadi and Wintner, 2022)
✓
ARA-ENG-FRA
(Habash et al., 2008)
✓
MSA-DA
(Elfardy and Diab, 2012)
✓
MSA-EGY, MSA-LEV
(Solorio et al., 2014)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Molina et al., 2016)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Chowdhury et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Samih and Maier, 2016a)
✓
MSA-MOR-
ENG/FRA/SPA/BER
(Samih and Maier, 2016b)
✓
MSA-MOR-FRA/SPA/BER
(Abidi and Smaïli, 2017)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA
(Adouane and Dobnik, 2017)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
(Diab et al., 2019)
✓
MSA-EGY-FOR
(Tarmom et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY-SAU-ENG
(Hajbi et al., 2022)
✓
MSA-MOR-ENG/FRA/SPA
Machine Translation
(Bies et al., 2014)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Abainia, 2019)
✓
ALG-ENG/FRA
(Seddah et al., 2020)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Hamed et al., 2022c)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Nagoudi et al., 2023)
✓
ALG/MOR/TUN-FRA,
EGY/JOR/PAL-ENG
(Menacer et al., 2019)
✓
MSA-ENG
(Elmadany et al., 2022)
✓
✓
ALG-FRA, JOR-ENG,
(synthetic) MSA-ENG/FRA
Transliteration
(Al-Badrashiny et al., 2014)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Bies et al., 2014)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Chen et al., 2017)
✓
EGY-FOR
(Abainia, 2019)
✓
ALG-ENG/FRA
(Touileb and Barnes, 2021)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Darwish, 2014)
✓
AR-ENG
(Alhazmi et al., 2024)
✓
ARA-FOR
Sentiment Analysis
(Tobaili et al., 2019)
✓
LEB-ENG
(Sherif and Sabty, 2024)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Almasah et al., 2023)
✓
ARA-FOR
(Mataoui et al., 2016)
✓
MSA-ALG-FRA
(Adouane et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-ALG-FRA-BER
(Touileb and Barnes, 2021)
✓
ALG-FRA
Table 9: List of resource papers supporting the stated text-based tasks.

===== PAGE 24 =====
DA-
Foreign
MSA-
Foreign
ARA-
Foreign
MSA-
DA
MSA-DA-
Foreign
Language Details
Named Entity Recognition
(Sabty et al., 2019a)
✓
✓
MSA-ENG, EGY-ENG
(Sabty et al., 2019b)
✓
✓
MSA-ENG, EGY-ENG
(Aguilar et al., 2018)
✓
MSA-EGY
Sentence-level Language Identification
(Shehadi and Wintner, 2022)
✓
ARA-ENG-FRA
(Altamimi et al., 2018)
✓
MSA-EGY/GLF/IRQ/LEV,
MSA-MOR/TUN/LIB/ALG
(Chowdhury et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY
Tokenization
(Balabel et al., 2020)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Seddah et al., 2020)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Gaser et al., 2023)
✓
EGY-ENG
Part-of-speech Tagging
(Balabel et al., 2020)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Seddah et al., 2020)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Diab et al., 2019)
✓
MSA-EGY-FOR
Abusive Language Detection
(Abainia, 2019)
✓
ALG-ENG/FRA
(Guellil et al., 2021)
✓
ALG-ENG/FRA
(Alhazmi et al., 2024)
✓
ARA-FOR
Sentence-level Micro-Dialect Identification
(Abainia, 2018)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Abdul-Mageed et al., 2020)
✓
ARA-FOR
Dialectness Level Estimation
(Habash et al., 2008)
✓
MSA-DA
(Hamed et al., 2024)
✓
MSA-EMI/EGY-ENG
Spelling Correction and Text Normalization
(Adouane et al., 2019)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
Dependency Parsing
(Seddah et al., 2020)
✓
ALG-FRA
Fake News Detection
(Smaïli et al., 2024)
✓
MSA-TUN/ALG-ENG-FRA
Word Analogy
(Aghzal and Mourhir, 2021) ✓
MOR-ENG-FRA
Lemmzatization
(Balabel et al., 2020)
✓
EGY-ENG
Emotion Detection
(Abainia, 2019)
✓
ALG-ENG/FRA
Topic Modeling
(Touileb and Barnes, 2021)
✓
ALG-FRA
Text Corpora (without annotations)
(Hamed et al., 2019)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Aghzal and Mourhir, 2021) ✓
MOR-ENG-FRA
(Hamed et al., 2017)
✓
MSA-ENG
(Adouane et al., 2018b)
✓
MSA-ALG-ENG-FRA-BER
Table 10: List of resource papers supporting the stated text-based tasks.

===== PAGE 25 =====
DA-
Foreign
MSA-
Foreign
ARA-
Foreign
MSA-
DA
MSA-DA-
Foreign
Language Details
Automatic Speech Recognition
(Ismail, 2015)
✓
SAU-ENG
(Amazouz et al., 2017)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Amazouz et al., 2018)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Hamed et al., 2018a)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Elfahal, 2019)
✓
SUD-ENG
(Hamed et al., 2020)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Lounnas et al., 2021)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Hamed et al., 2022c)
✓
EGY-ENG
(Abdallah et al., 2024)
✓
TUN-ENG-FRA
(Al Ali and Aldarmaki, 2024)
✓
EMI-ENG
(Lachemat et al., 2024)
✓
ALG-ENG-FRA
(Ali et al., 2021)
✓
ARA-ENG/FRA
(Ugan et al., 2022)
✓
ARA-DEU
(Chowdhury et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY
(Mubarak et al., 2021)
✓
✓
MSA-DA, ARA-ENG/FRA
(Zribi et al., 2015)
✓
MSA-TUN-FRA
(Hamed et al., 2024)
✓
MSA-EMI/EGY-ENG
Word-level Language Identification
(Mohdeb-Amazouz et al., 2016) ✓
ALG/TUN/MOR-FRA
(Amazouz et al., 2017)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Amazouz et al., 2018)
✓
ALG-FRA
(Chowdhury et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY
Sentence-level Language Identification
(Chowdhury et al., 2020)
✓
MSA-EGY
Speech Translation
(Hamed et al., 2022c)
✓
EGY-ENG
Table 11: List of resource papers supporting the stated speech-based tasks.
