===== PAGE 1 =====
Reassessing Active Learning Adoption in Contemporary NLP:
A Community Survey
Julia Romberg
∗♣1, Christopher Schröder
∗2, Julius Gonsior
3,
Katrin Tomanek4, and Fredrik Olsson5
1GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences
2Institute for Applied Informatics at Leipzig University (InfAI)
2Center for Scalable Data Analytics and Artificial Intelligence (ScaDS.AI)
Dresden/Leipzig, Leipzig University
3TUD Dresden University of Technology
4Independent Researcher
5All Ears
Abstract
Supervised learning relies on data annotation
which usually is time-consuming and there-
fore expensive. A longstanding strategy to re-
duce annotation costs is active learning, an
iterative process, in which a human annotates
only data instances deemed informative by a
model. Research in active learning has made
considerable progress, especially with the rise
of large language models (LLMs). However,
we still know little about how these remarkable
advances have translated into real-world appli-
cations, or contributed to removing key barriers
to active learning adoption. To fill in this gap,
we conduct an online survey in the NLP com-
munity to collect previously intangible insights
on current implementation practices, common
obstacles in application, and future prospects in
active learning. We also reassess the perceived
relevance of data annotation and active learn-
ing as fundamental assumptions. Our findings
show that data annotation is expected to remain
important and active learning to stay relevant
while benefiting from LLMs. Consistent with
a community survey from over 15 years ago,
three key challenges yet persist—setup com-
plexity, uncertain cost reduction, and tooling—
for which we propose alleviation strategies. We
publish an anonymized version of the dataset.1
1
Introduction
Supervised learning is one of the most common
concepts in natural language processing (NLP).
By definition, the approach depends on annotated
data, which is usually time-consuming to create
and therefore expensive, making supervised learn-
ing a resource-intensive process.
∗Equal contribution.
♣Corresponding author: Julia.Romberg@gesis.org
1Dataset is available from: https://doi.org/10.7802/2990.
Year
Conference
Workshop
Journal
0
20
40
Latest community survey on AL in NLP
2015
2020
2010
2025
Active Learning
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
BERT
ChatGPT
Number of Publications
All Publications
Figure 1: Development of AL publication numbers in
*CL venues over the past 15 years (total publication
numbers for reference). The methodological details are
provided in Appendix A. Note that the numbers for 2025
must be interpreted with caution, as not all data were
available in the ACL Anthology at the time of analysis.
A longstanding strategy for minimizing the anno-
tation effort while maintaining model performance
is active learning (AL; Lewis and Gale, 1994),
where a human annotator iteratively provides la-
bels for small batches of data instances deemed
informative by a model. The selection of these in-
stances is guided by specific query strategies. After
each round, the model is retrained on the newly
annotated data to improve task performance. This
process continues until a predetermined stopping
criterion is met, concluding the annotation process.
Since its beginnings, AL has evolved consider-
ably (Xia et al., 2025), not least because of the gains
brought about by large language models (LLMs2).
2We adopt the definition of LLMs from Rogers and Luc-
cioni (2024), which encompasses both encoders and decoders.
arXiv:2503.09701v4  [cs.CL]  2 Feb 2026

===== PAGE 2 =====
We observe notable surges in the number of AL
publications in *CL venues in 2018 and 2022 (see
Figure 1), likely due to new opportunities enabled
by transformer-based language models and genera-
tive AI. These works have found considerable im-
provements in effectiveness and sample efficiency
when integrating LLMs with AL in different sce-
narios (e.g., Ein-Dor et al., 2020; Margatina et al.,
2021; Tonneau et al., 2022; Xiao et al., 2023).
While AL is continuously developed in research,
its primary goal remains to enable practical appli-
cations. When Tomanek and Olsson last surveyed
NLP practitioners on the use of AL in 2009, only
20% stated they had implemented AL to support
annotation—although many were aware of AL and
its experimentally proven promises. Key barriers
to adoption were skepticism about the practical
effectiveness and the overhead of implementing an-
notation interfaces. The few that had adopted AL
highlighted sampling complexity, annotator wait-
ing times, and interface design as issues critical to
the practical realization. Little do we, as a field,
know about how the practical use of AL has altered
since then, or whether research advancements have
helped address its practical challenges. More than
15 years later, the question of practical adoption
thus deserves renewed attention.
Drawing from the literature alone cannot provide
a complete answer to this question, as practical use
of AL—in contrast to experimental evaluations—
is often not documented publicly. Therefore, we
devise and conduct an extensive community sur-
vey following the example of Tomanek and Olsson
(2009). While still uncommon in NLP, community
surveys have proven effective for obtaining knowl-
edge unavailable in academic literature (e.g., Zhou
et al., 2022; Subramonian et al., 2023; Michael
et al., 2023; Blaschke et al., 2024). This way, we
can not only assess the assumed transformative
impact of LLMs, but also take a step back to re-
examine whether fundamental assumptions about
the need for data-efficient annotation still hold.
Contributions
(1) We collect a dataset of in-
sights on AL and data annotation needs from the
NLP community, academia and industry, through a
comprehensive survey with 52 questions. (2) We
evaluate the responses of 144 participants quan-
titatively and qualitatively, and compare them to
the community survey from 2009. (3) We discuss
the results and connect them to literature, describ-
ing anticipated future developments in applied AL.
(4) We identify three key problems to adoption that
persist in contemporary AL and outline possible
solutions.
Findings
Our descriptive analysis indicates that
data annotation remains important and a bottleneck
for supervised learning, for which AL is mostly
regarded as a relevant method to address this issue.
Advances in NLP have led to LLMs becoming the
prevalent choice of backbone model in practice,
but key barriers to AL adoption from over a decade
ago still persist, demanding greater emphasis on
reducing the complexity of setup, ensuring cost
reduction, and improving annotation tools.
2
Survey Methodology
To fill the knowledge gap between LLM-driven
achievements in AL literature and practical imple-
mentations, our community survey centers on five
research questions. The first two assess assump-
tions fundamental to AL about the continued rele-
vance of data annotation and AL as a method.
RQ1. What is the current state of data annotation
needs in the age of LLMs?
RQ2. How does AL compare to other methods for
overcoming data annotation challenges?
We then turn to the main focus of interest, the con-
temporary implementation of AL with respect to
the past (Olsson, 2009) and anticipated future.
RQ3. What do contemporary AL implementations
look like in practice?
RQ4. What developments in AL have been ob-
served and are anticipated?
RQ5. How do current perspectives on AL compare
with those from 15 years ago?
2.1
Descriptive Research Approach
Following previous community surveys in *CL
venues (Zhou et al., 2022; Michael et al., 2023;
Blaschke et al., 2024), this survey adopts a descrip-
tive research design in order to systematically doc-
ument experiences within a sample of NLP prac-
titioners. We capture firsthand experiences from
academic and industry practitioners relevant to an-
swering the five research questions, including real-
world practices, barriers, and further perceptions
of AL adoption. Our primary goal with this ap-
proach is to understand how and why practitioners
use (or avoid) AL in their specific contexts, instead

===== PAGE 3 =====
(c) Paths
Path Name
I–VII
52
Full
32
I–III, VI–VII
Active learning without
human annotators
22
I–II, VII
No active learning
I, VII
Never experienced a 
lack of annotated data
8
Groups
#Questions
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
if: user has experienced a lack of annotated data
if: user has applied AL
if: user has applied AL 
with human annotators
else
else
else
(b) Flow
VII.
Background Information
VI.
Trends in Active Learning for NLP
V.
Active Learning: Task & Annotation Setup
IV.
Active Learning: Methodological Setup
III.
Active Learning: General
II.
Overcoming a Lack of Annotated Data
I.
Relevance of Data Annotation
(a) Question Groups
Figure 2: This diagram illustrates (a) the names and se-
quence of question groups in the survey, (b) the logical
flow between these question groups, including branch-
ing points and conditions, and (c) the possible paths
that respondents take through the survey, ordered by the
number of questions in descending order.
of making universal claims about AL’s effective-
ness. Notably, descriptive research methodology
provides valuable documentation, even if it does
not generalize to the entire target population. The
practitioners’ responses provide empirical evidence
that has at most been theoretically discussed, but
not systematically documented before. Our find-
ings can be interpreted as valuable documentation
of how AL is actually employed in practice, with
important implications for future research.
2.2
Questions and Branching
Our survey comprises 52 questions over 7 logical
groups (Figure 2a), which we will refer to by ques-
tion group I to VII in the following. The survey
includes both predefined and free-form response
options. We refer to the latter as other responses,
and assess them through qualitative coding, involv-
ing normalization and grouping of the inputs.
We use branching logic (Figure 2b) to guide par-
ticipants through the survey. The main criteria here
are having (1) experienced a lack of annotated data,
(2) applied AL in either setting (i.e., simulation
or practical), and (3) used AL in practical settings
with human annotators. Questions are automati-
cally skipped if participants are ineligible to answer
based on prior responses. For example, participants
who have never used AL will not be shown groups
III–VI (see Figure 2c for different user groups).
Thereby we aim to minimize the required effort for
completing the survey, which is more appreciative
of the participants’ time, and also has been shown
to positively affect the completion rates (Liu and
Wronski, 2018). The full survey is provided in Ap-
pendix C, including information on each question’s
format (i.e., free-form, multiple or single choice).
2.3
Target Audience and Distribution
The survey is targeted at the NLP domain and
the minimum eligibility for participation is basic
knowledge of supervised learning for NLP.
We distributed the survey through various chan-
nels aiming to reach a broad audience: (1) mailing
lists (ACL, ELRA corpora, ELRA SIGUL, Natural
Language Processing DC, tada.cool); (2) personal-
ized email to a manually curated list of 601 individ-
uals who co-authored papers on AL at major *CL
venues between 2009 and 2024, and 9 additional
personal contacts; (3) common social media chan-
nels (LinkedIn, Bluesky, Twitter/X, Hugging Face
Posts); (4) outreach to annotation tool developers
and providers, asking them to share the survey with
their users. Supplementary details on distribution
and implementation are provided in Appendix B.
The survey was open online to voluntary partici-
pants for 6 weeks, from December 15th, 2024, to
January 26th, 2025. Calls for participation were
shared in three waves: the initial invitation at the
start of the survey period, a first reminder after two
weeks, and a second reminder after four weeks.
2.4
Consent, Data Usage, and Privacy
We implemented measures to ensure compliance
with the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
The survey was conducted anonymously, and par-
ticipants consented to an anonymized release of
their input. See Appendix B.4 for details.

===== PAGE 4 =====
[multiple choice]
Other (6)
Computer Science (88)
Computational Linguistics (56)
Linguistics (27)
Engineering (23)
Social Sciences (14)
Mathematics (10)
Educational Background
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
0.0
1-2 years (11)
3-5 years (47)
5-10 years (55)
More than 10 years (30)
Up to 1 year (1)
Experience
[single choice]
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Europe (87)
North America (20)
Asia (19)
Africa (11)
South America (3)
Oceania (2)
No Answer (2)
[single choice]
Place of Residence
Academia (107)
Industry (45)
Governmental organization (7)
Other (2)
Information and comm. techn. (79)
Education (44)
Humanities (24)
Other (18)
Health services sector (12)
Public service sector (11)
Legal sector (8)
Society and politics (7)
Financial sector (5)
Economics (4)
Field
[multiple choice]
Sectors
[multiple choice]
Percentage of Participants (n=144)
Figure 3: Exploratory histograms of participants’ work
sectors, the field they are working in, educational back-
ground, work experience in machine learning/NLP, and
primary place of residence (cf. VII.1-5). The y-axis of
each histogram represents the response options for the
survey question, while the x-axis shows the proportion
of participants who chose each response option.
3
Results
We first present the participant sample and then
analyze the responses to RQ1–RQ4, deferring the
discussion of RQ5 to Section 5.
Table 3 in Appendix D lists the response distribu-
tions for all 52 survey questions. In the remainder,
we link specific arguments in the text to correspond-
ing questions in Table 3 by question group and
number (e.g., I.1 for the first question).
3.1
Participant Statistics
Among 171 persons that navigated to the first ques-
tion group, 144 completed the survey.3 This corre-
sponds to a completion rate of 84% of those that
3Compared to other surveys (Zhou et al., 2022; Subramo-
nian et al., 2023; Michael et al., 2023; Blaschke et al., 2024),
144 full responses place us in the mid-range of participation.
entered the content part of the survey. Incomplete
responses were excluded from analysis.
Figure 3 presents a demographic summary of
the 144 participants. Most work in academia, but
a substantial portion is employed in industry. In-
formation and communications technology clearly
leads the field of work, while the educational back-
ground is primarily in computer science and com-
putational linguistics. Overall, the participants are
very experienced in NLP, with the majority having
between 3 to 10 years of experience. For recruiting
participants, mailing lists were the most effective
referral source (51%, cf. VII.7).
A certain degree of selection bias is evident,
and should be kept in mind when interpreting
our results. Most notable is a geographical over-
representation from Europe, despite considerable
efforts to reach a diverse audience (see Appendix B;
this limitation is also encountered by, e.g., Højer
et al. (2025) despite a global recruitment strategy).
Our targeted recruitment of authors may have intro-
duced additional bias, but was deemed necessary
to reach sufficient response rates on AL questions.
Appendix D.1 addresses potential overestimation.
3.2
Data Annotation in Times of LLMs
First, we assess whether the community perceives
a persistent need for data annotation (RQ1). To
capture perceived shifts in the relevance of anno-
tated data, we ask those 138 respondents (out of
144) who had previously encountered difficulties
due to a lack of annotated data (cf. I.1). We are
interested in potential changes in difficulties given
recent advancements in NLP.
Figure 4 illustrates the attitude on five questions
about the relevance of data annotation currently.
Overall, participants largely agree that many prob-
lems will still require supervised learning (80%).
Annotated data remains a limiting factor here; in
general (94%), for certain languages (75%), and
for problems of a certain complexity (91%). More-
over, for their tasks, only few participants agree
that generative AI for training data synthesis offers
a viable solution (30%).
Answer to RQ1: Supervised learning remains im-
portant in the age of LLMs. Data annotation is still
a bottleneck, especially in demanding scenarios.
3.3
Overcoming Data Annotation Challenges
Next, we ask how AL is perceived for overcoming
data annotation challenges compared to alternative
methods (RQ2). 120 out of the 138 respondents

===== PAGE 5 =====
Neither agree 
nor disagree
Strongly 
agree
Strongly 
disagree
Disagree
Agree
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Percentage of Participants (n=138)
The type of tasks that I used to solve with supervised learn-
ing, can be (or will soon be) solved by leveraging generative 
AI to synthesize training data.
Annotated data is still a limiting factor for problems of a 
certain complexity (e.g., in summarization where summarizing
long documents can be time-consuming).
Annotated data is still a limiting factor for the languages 
I work with. 
Annotated data is still a limiting factor in the context of 
supervised learning. 
Many problems will still be solved as supervised learning tasks. 
Relevance of Data Annotation
Figure 4: Respondents’ assessment of the relevance of
data annotation in context of recent advancements in
NLP using a 5-point Likert scale (cf. I.3–7).
who were eligible for RQ1 had used computational
methods to answer this (cf. II.1).
Adoption of active learning
AL has been used
by over half of the respondents (a total of 63;
cf. II.2), and the primary motivation was obtain-
ing annotated data at minimal cost (87%). Further
goals included gaining practical experience (46%),
identifying difficult examples in annotation guide-
lines (24%), and improving data quality or using
AL for research purposes (8%; cf. III.2).
When asking why participants had not chosen
AL, 25% had never heard of it, and 49% cited
insufficient expertise. There were accompanying
methodological concerns, such as the expected im-
plementation overhead (37%), the lack of (or un-
awareness about) suitable annotation tools (32%),
the difficulty of estimating effectiveness upfront
(12%), and sampling bias (18%). 9% found it un-
suitable due to specific project requirements and
14% doubted AL’s effectiveness at all (cf. II.5).
Despite these concerns, 54% of participants who
had not yet used AL consider its application in fu-
ture projects and further 38% indicated they are
merely uncertain due to a lack of knowledge. Only
one participant would explicitly not use AL (reason-
ing that it does not work well enough in practice;
cf. II.8), while four made its use dependent on the
specific circumstances (16%; cf. II.7).
Active Learning (63)
Data Augmentation (88)
Few-Shot Learning (75)
Semi-Supervised Learning (64)
Text Generation (59)
Transfer Learning (79)
Weak Supervision (53)
Zero-Shot Learning (63) 
Other (14)
variable
[multiple choice]
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
[multiple choice]
Finding annotators (22) 
AL with multiple annotators (35)
Unclear annotation instructions (18)
Hard cases for annotation (37)
Lack of GPU/TPU resources (16)
Choice of model/query strategy (31)
Choice of stopping criterion (22)
Other (4)
Percentage of Participants
(b) Methods
(a) Obstacles
(n=120)
(n=63)
Figure 5: Obstacles especially faced in the application
of AL (a) and participants’ general experience with
computational methods for a lack of annotated data
(b). The y-axis represents the response options for the
survey question, while the x-axis shows the proportion
of participants who chose each response option.
Alternative methods
The current users of AL
also report obstacles in data annotation with AL,
illustrated in Figure 5a, which may lead them to
opt for alternatives instead. The most pronounced
challenge is handling hard annotation cases, fol-
lowed by the involvement of multiple annotators.
The third major hurdle is selecting an appropriate
model and query strategy. In the other responses,
the need for open, robust, and user-friendly AL
tools was emphasized (cf. III.3).
The use of computational alternatives to AL
is widely dispersed across participants (see Fig-
ure 5b), but we observe that only data augmenta-
tion, transfer learning, and few-shot learning have
been used more frequently than AL in our sample.
In general, the alternative methods were considered
successful in overcoming a lack of annotated data
in slightly over half of the cases (57%, cf. II.4). In
comparison, recent AL-based annotation projects
were considered successful in 91% and effective in
67% of cases (see Section 3.4 for more details).
Answer to RQ2: The strong openness to and
perceived success of AL suggest its relevance for
data annotation despite available alternatives.
3.4
Contemporary Active Learning
Moreover, we ask what contemporary setups of
applied AL look like (RQ3). This section evaluates

===== PAGE 6 =====
LLMs (>= 1B)
LLMs  (< 1B)
Neural Networks
Traditional Models
Other
Do not know
Class of Model (n=33)
Class of Query Strategy
Batch diversity
Density
Disagreement
Gradient
information
Hybrid
Predicted
performance
Uncertainty
Other
Do not know
Count
1
2
3
9
Figure 6: Distribution of the reported combinations of
model and query strategy.
33 AL projects4 with human annotators that were
conducted within the last five years (from 2020
onwards; cf. III.5, IV.1).
Models, query strategies, and stopping criteria
Figure 6 provides an overview of models and query
strategies used. The majority of projects relied on
LLMs, with a clear preference for smaller mod-
els such as BERT. Notably, only two projects em-
ployed larger language models (in the context of
our survey with 1B parameters and above). Un-
certainty sampling emerged as the dominant query
strategy, despite the wide range of alternatives.5
Among the other options, we observe the tryout of
multiple models and query strategies, as well as
AutoML libraries for model selection (cf. IV.2,3).
For stopping the AL process, most projects halted
upon budget depletion (39%), after evaluation of
the model on a held-out gold standard (30%) or via
human assessment (3%). Stopping at a fixed num-
ber of iterations or instances is less common (12%).
Algorithmic stopping criteria are still rare, used in
only 12% of cases (cf. IV.5).
We also inquired regarding encountered waiting
times and the maximum acceptable waiting times
between annotation cycles, as illustrated in Fig-
ure 7. We observe a broad range reported across
projects, from under one minute to up to one week.
Contrary to our expectations, participants are will-
4There is a near-equal split between academic (16) and
industry/government respondents (20, including 3 overlaps).
5Zhang et al. (2022) give an overview of query strategies.
0.8
1.0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Percentage of Participants
Maximum acceptable waiting time (n=63)
Maximum encountered waiting time (n=33)
( – / 0.20) 
(0.17 / 0.38) 
(0.34 / 0.50) 
<  1 minute
(1.00 / 1.00) 
< 10 minutes
(0.89 / 0.90) 
<  1 hour
(0.68 / 0.69) 
< 10 hours
(0.48 / 0.65) 
<  1 day
<  1 week
As long as it takes
Figure 7: Waiting times between two annotation cycles
encountered in practical projects (cf. IV.4) versus the
maximum time respondents would accept (cf. III.4).
Very effective
Effective
Neither effective 
nor ineffective
Ineffective
Very ineffective
Responses (n=33)
Very successful
Successful
Neither successful
nor unsuccessful
4
2
0
0
0
6
9
6
2
1
0
1
2
0
0
Project
0
4
8
Figure 8: The reported project success broken down
by effectiveness of AL. Unselected options for project
success are omitted (unsuccessful, very unsuccessful).
ing to wait considerable times up to one week, over
50% even as long as one day, suggesting that sig-
nificant sampling times are neither unexpected nor
problematic for them.
Annotation tools
Given the availability of an-
notation tools with AL support, we asked partic-
ipants about their usage. Interestingly, just over
half of the projects used such a tool (17). These in-
clude Argilla (4), LabelSleuth (3), Prodigy (2),
ActiveAnno (1), ALAMBIC (1), ALANNO (1), Label
Studio (1), and self-built solutions (4) (cf. V.6,7).
Satisfaction with project
Figure 8 illustrates the
perceived success of the annotation projects to-
gether with the perceived effectiveness of using
AL. Overall, most projects were considered suc-
cessful with an effective AL contribution. At the

===== PAGE 7 =====
same time, especially for successful projects, it can
be observed that the perception of AL effectiveness
ranges from very high to very low (cf. V.11, V.12).
Among those that reported a reduced effective-
ness, the main reasons were the lack of suitable
annotation tools (24%; notably, 4 had used a tool
with AL support) and the overhead of setup (21%),
which connects to insufficient knowledge in retro-
spect (17%). Performance mismatches contributed,
such as poor overall performance (21%), a lack
of effort reduction (9%), inaccurate efficiency es-
timation (9%), and mismatching project-specific
requirements (6%). In addition, respondents noted
sampling bias (15%) and dataset-model depen-
dency (15%). The other options stress concerns
about setup time and effectiveness (cf. V.13). Con-
sidering potential differences in terms of practical
utility “in the real world” and for NLP researchers,
we find that academic and industry/governmental
respondents align closely on reasons for reduced
effectiveness. Appendix D.2 provides a detailed
breakdown across sectors for the entire Section 3.4.
Overall, 28 out of 33 AL practitioners stated they
would use AL again in future projects. Two respon-
dents restricted its use to specific scenarios, while
another one remained uncertain. Only two respon-
dents would not use AL again, noting that AL does
not work well enough in practice (cf. V.14,15).
Answer to RQ3: The reported projects favor
LLMs with uncertainty sampling. While project
satisfaction is high in general, setup complexity
(overhead, efficiency estimates, knowledge), gen-
eral project risks (performance, effort reduction,
sampling bias, model dependency, requirements),
and unsuitable tools challenge AL adoption.
3.5
Anticipated Developments
We now turn to developments in AL that respon-
dents anticipate (RQ4), starting with a reflection on
four important advancements for NLP from recent
years (see Figure 9 in Appendix D). We find that
participants particularly agree on the impact of text
embeddings (81%), GPU-accelerated computing
(67%), and neural networks (59%) on AL imple-
mentations. In contrast, the use of parameter-heavy
LLMs was more controversial (36% agreement).
We furthermore asked participants, through an
open-ended question, about future AL trends in
NLP they expect to shape the field. Table 1 shows
the results of our qualitative analysis. The majority
of responses anticipated the integration of LLMs at
various stages of AL. Further emphasis was put on
LEVERAGING LANGUAGE MODELS
1. (Partially) using LLMs as annotators (8)
2. Increased use of LLMs in AL components (7)
3. Data synthesis during or before AL (4)
4. Incorporate language model-based agents (3)
5. Improved usage of embeddings (2)
6. Using small efficient models (2)
INSTANCE SELECTION
1. More sophisticated query strategies (4)
2. Effectiveness over random sampling (2)
3. More reliable, well-calibrated uncertainty scores (2)
TOOLING
1. Improvements in convenience (4)
2. Easier bootstrapping of an AL setup (2)
OTHER
1. AL for low-resource languages (2)
2. AL for subjective tasks (1)
Table 1: Participant-identified trends in AL for NLP.
improved instance selection. Responses also hint at
expected advancements in tooling or improvements
for low-resource languages and subjective tasks.
Answer to RQ4: Practitioners anticipate that
the future of AL will revolve around increased
and pragmatic LLM integration. Simultaneously,
they call for fundamental improvements in existing
query strategies and more accessible tooling.
4
Related Work
Progress in active learning research
AL for
NLP has substantially grown since its beginnings.
Advancements have been reviewed in several lit-
erature surveys over time, focusing either on the
overall picture (Olsson, 2009; Zhang et al., 2022),
or on certain sub-aspects such as deep neural net-
works and text classification (Schröder and Niekler,
2020), or entity recognition (Kohl et al., 2024). The
most recent academic developments are captured
by Xia et al. (2025), who surveyed LLM-based AL.
Active learning in the era of LLMs
The inte-
gration of LLMs and AL has been associated with
a number of benefits. Among these are the out-
standing performance of LLMs that can be boosted
through AL even in demanding real-world data
scenarios (Ein-Dor et al., 2020), resulting in a sig-
nificant reduction of human annotation effort (Shel-
manov et al., 2021; Zhao et al., 2020)6, the addi-
6Few studies directly compare the effort reduction in AL
between traditional models and LLMs, but Romberg and Es-
cher (2022) show, e.g., that LLMs can halve the manual effort.

===== PAGE 8 =====
tional source of information that pre-training pro-
vides in the cold-start of AL (Yuan et al., 2020),
and capabilities such as few-shot learning (Mar-
gatina et al., 2023; Bayer and Reuter, 2024) and
prompt-based strategies (Li et al., 2024). LLMs
have thus become the standard backbone models
across tasks such as text classification (Ein-Dor
et al., 2020; Yuan et al., 2020; Margatina et al.,
2021; Galimzianova and Sanochkin, 2024), se-
quence tagging (Shelmanov et al., 2019, 2021; Luo
et al., 2023), text summarization (Tsvigun et al.,
2022a; Li et al., 2024; Xia et al., 2024) and ma-
chine translation (Zeng et al., 2019; Zhao et al.,
2020; Mendonça et al., 2023; Yüksel et al., 2023).
Recent studies even suggest to entirely replace the
human annotator with LLMs as cost-effective al-
ternatives (Xiao et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2023;
Kholodna et al., 2024; Liang et al., 2024). The
reliability of LLM annotators, however, is still un-
der debate. For example, Baumann et al. (2025)
showed that with LLM annotators, incorrect statis-
tical conclusions occurred in over a third of cases.
Existing literature on our research questions
As anticipated in our motivation for conducting
this community survey, the existing literature of-
fers only limited answers to the research questions
we address. Related work hardly questions the con-
tinued need for data annotation (RQ1) and the rele-
vance of AL as a data-efficient method (RQ2). Our
paper contributes by providing evidence to support
this common assumption. Regarding contemporary
AL setups in real-world use (RQ3), reports from
actual AL applications or realistic simulations are
rare (Tonneau et al., 2022). That said, a few studies
do address challenges that we identified as persist-
ing in practice, such as model-dataset dependency
(Shelmanov et al., 2021; Tsvigun et al., 2022c; Yük-
sel et al., 2023; Jeleni´c et al., 2023) and unstable
performance and distribution mismatch (Li et al.,
2024). The literature provides more extensive cov-
erage of trends (RQ4), complementing the list of
potential next steps in applied AL. There is initial
research on LLMs as annotators (Zhang et al., 2023;
Xiao et al., 2023; Liang et al., 2024; Kholodna
et al., 2024), AL for few-shot learning or data syn-
thesis (Margatina et al., 2023; Bayer and Reuter,
2024; Zhang et al., 2023), improving AL on low-
resource languages through LLMs (Kholodna et al.,
2024), cost-efficient LLMs for AL (Galimzianova
and Sanochkin, 2024), LLM-determined curricula
for stable AL performance (Li et al., 2024), us-
ing AL to alleviate LLM hallucinations (Xia et al.,
2024), handling human label variation (Wang and
Plank, 2023; Van Der Meer et al., 2024) and anno-
tation errors (Weber and Plank, 2023) with AL.
Prior community surveys
Academic literature
provides insights most of all from simulated exper-
iments, including in literature surveys. Evaluations
of practical applications are rare, and more im-
portantly, can only represent the small portion of
practical applications that have been documented
in a scientific setting. Simulations, in contrast, pro-
vide only limited insights into the practical realities
(Margatina and Aletras, 2023). As a consequence,
important aspects, such as negative results and prac-
tical obstacles, are likely missing. For the field of
AL, there has only one community survey been
conducted as early as 2009 by Tomanek and Ols-
son. Given the significant progress in AL outlined
above, our study provides timely new insights into
practical implementations, going well beyond the
earlier survey by introducing new question groups
on the relevance of data annotation and AL, as well
as on trends in AL for NLP.
5
Discussion
We now first compare current perceptions to those
from 2009 (RQ5)7, then discuss the broader impli-
cations of our findings for AL as a field.
Comparison to Tomanek and Olsson (2009)
The setup of AL has naturally shifted from maxi-
mum entropy approaches and support vector ma-
chines towards LLMs as the model of choice. Our
survey indicates the popularity of smaller LLMs
(in this study defined as models with less than
1B parameters). We hypothesize that the close or
even on par performance these models can achieve
with fine-tuning on many traditional supervised
tasks (specifically encoders), combined with their
lower hardware requirements, render larger models
(i.e., LLMs with 1B parameters or more) computa-
tionally inefficient for practical application in AL.
Larger LLMs may become the preferred choice
in cases where a potentially minor performance
increase is mission critical, or when no suitable
smaller model exists (e.g., for languages where no
strong encoder models are available). At the same
time, uncertainty sampling remains the preferred
7The available data collection methodology does not allow
us to claim representativeness of the NLP community for the
two distinct samples. We therefore compare central findings
rather than conducting longitudinal statistical analyses.

===== PAGE 9 =====
query strategy. Although surprising at first glance,
given the growing range of more sophisticated alter-
natives, this is in accordance with the literature on
strong performance of uncertainty sampling (Shen
et al., 2017; Margatina et al., 2022; Schröder et al.,
2022). In terms of stopping criteria, practical con-
straints such as time and budget still largely out-
weigh information-theoretical grounds.
Revisiting the central challenges identified by
Tomanek and Olsson (2009) (cf. Section 1), our
current survey reveals that many of these issues
remain relevant. Skepticism about the practical
effectiveness of AL and the perceived overhead
of implementing annotation interfaces continue to
prevent community members from adopting AL.
Similarly, users of AL continue to report difficul-
ties related to sampling complexity and interface
design. However, we did not observe notable chal-
lenges related to annotator waiting times, unlike
in 2009; on the contrary, participants indicated a
willingness to tolerate considerable delays. The
shift to LLMs may have altered requirements here.
Answer to RQ5: LLMs have substantially trans-
formed AL by serving as powerful backbone models.
Nonetheless, key challenges to AL adoption persist
despite considerable growth in AL research.
Bridging the gap between research achieve-
ments and practical needs
While LLMs offer
options beyond serving as backbone models, these
have not yet been integrated into the AL work-
flows reported by our participants. Approaches
like prompt-based strategies (Li et al., 2024) and
in-context learning (Margatina et al., 2023) could
make AL more accessible for less-expert users, and
using AL for few-shot example selection (Bayer
and Reuter, 2024) may further reduce annotation
effort. Trends such as LLMs-as-annotators, how-
ever, require stronger theoretical foundations first
before they can provide reliable support in prac-
tice (Baumann et al., 2025; Tan et al., 2024).
Despite progress on single issues, such as model-
dataset dependency (Tsvigun et al., 2022c; Jeleni´c
et al., 2023) and performance stability (Li et al.,
2024), research overall did not manage to suffi-
ciently address the three overarching challenges to
practical adoption that the community has raised:
(1) Excessive complexity of the AL setup: Respon-
dents who never had applied AL most often cite
a lack of methodological expertise and imple-
mentation overhead as obstructing factors. AL
users share the concerns regarding methodolog-
ical choices. The ongoing introduction of new
algorithms (e.g., query strategies) and, thus, pos-
sible setup combinations continually increases
complexity.
(2) Risk of starting an AL project: Respondents
noted that the cost reduction through AL cannot
be reliably estimated upfront. Its dependence
on numerous variables makes a priori chosen
setups prone to unsatisfactory outcomes (Low-
ell et al., 2019), possibly worse than random
sampling (Ghose and Nguyen, 2024).
(3) Perceived insufficiency of tooling: Despite con-
siderable activity in the development of AL an-
notation tools, their progress is still perceived
as insufficient. We suspect that this is partly due
to the large problem space, making it difficult
for tools to serve all tasks.
As a starting point for addressing these chal-
lenges, we propose to:
(1) prioritize the reduction of existing complexity
instead of devising new algorithms, e.g., by re-
futing the effectiveness of established strategies;
(2) develop and continually research guidelines or
heuristics for choosing AL components based
on the setup’s variables, e.g., with a decision
tree that specifies based on task and number of
classes. More insights from practical use cases
would also be immensely helpful to provide
valuable points of comparison; and
(3) enhance the visibility of existing tools, and pro-
vide user feedback that can be used by tool
developers to refine their interfaces to ease
the application of AL (Shnarch et al., 2022b;
Juki´c et al., 2023), especially for non-expert
users (Ras et al., 2022).
6
Conclusions
To gain comprehensive insights into AL in the era
of LLMs, we conducted an online survey in the
NLP community. Our findings suggest that AL is
mostly viewed as a viable solution to the persistent
challenge of data annotation. While recent research
advancements have only partly permeated to AL
applications yet, and the use of LLMs in AL is
still on the rise, respondents are overall positive on
the potential of LLMs in AL. We conclude with
recommendations to improve three longstanding
problems that hinder broader and more satisfying
adoption, thereby hoping to strengthen AL further.

===== PAGE 10 =====
Limitations
Representativeness of the community survey
Our results are descriptive for a sub-sample of the
NLP community only, and therefore we cannot
draw conclusions for the entirety of the community.
As shown in Figure 3, our distribution strategy led
to a potential over-representation of academia as
a work sector and European countries (primarily
Germany). While the geographic reach is broad
(covering 44 countries in total), a stronger represen-
tation from North America and Asia was expected.8
Moreover, as our survey is distributed in English,
this may introduce a language bias, possibly exclud-
ing respondents who are not proficient in English or
decide against responding due to being uncomfort-
able responding in English. However, distributing
the survey in multiple languages seems infeasible
given the vast number of written languages.
Temporal bias in perception
It is difficult to de-
termine when participants formed their opinions
on AL, as assessments are commonly based on
past experiences that may not align with current
advancements. Similarly, we cannot ensure that
recent improvements in AL were acknowledged
or influenced their opinion. As a result, the col-
lected responses may be subject to a temporal bias,
potentially pointing to issues that have since been
improved upon or even resolved. However, our
analysis of recent projects confirms that the three
key challenges (setup complexity, cost reduction
estimation, and tooling) persist, to a certain extent.
Constraints of active learning in low-resource
language scenarios
Naturally, AL can be suit-
able in scenarios in which annotated resources are
scarce, and yet non-annotated data is available.
However, limitations apply where using machine
learning-based methods to tackle NLP tasks may be
prevented by the almost complete lack of language-
specific data (be it annotated or non-annotated)
as well as non-existing NLP pipelines and tools.
As some of our survey participants pointed out
in the free-form text fields, non-machine learning
techniques often have to be applied for those lan-
guages, and in consequence, AL cannot provide a
solution here. We recognize that especially in the
low-resource language field non-machine learning
based approaches are still relevant today.
8http://stats.aclrollingreview.org/submissions/geo-
diversity/,
https://www.marekrei.com/blog/geographic-
diversity-of-nlp-conferences/
Ethical Considerations
To comply with data protection laws, we took the
necessary steps to ensure compliance with the EU
General Data Protection Regulation. Respondents
granted their consent to the storage and analysis
of their provided data, and the distribution of an
anonymized version thereof, before starting the
survey. To allow the NLP community to conduct
extended analyses on the collected information and
to uphold scientific transparency, we will publish
the resulting dataset in a form that does not allow
to infer conclusions about individuals.
Given the growing skepticism about data usage,
particularly in the context of generative AI, and the
voluntary nature of survey participation, we opted
for a non-commercial license (i.e., CC BY-NC-
SA 4.09). This approach ensures that the data can
be accessed and used for research purposes while
safeguarding respondents’ privacy and addressing
concerns about potential misuse.
Acknowledgments
We thank all the great anonymous participants
of the survey for their time and invaluable an-
swers, which enabled this research.
Likewise,
we are grateful for everyone who supported us
by distributing the survey, in particular Rabiraj
Bandyopadhyay, David Berenstein, Ariel Gera,
Alon Halfon, Philip H., Erik Körner, Gebriella
Lapesa, Maximilian Maurer, Ines Montani, Paul
Noirel, Julian Oestreich, Myrthe Reuver, Arij Ri-
abi, Stefan Schweter, Artem Shelmanov, Eyal
Shnarch, Manuel Tonneau and Akim Tsvigun. We
are equally grateful to all anonymous supporters.
Thanks to all tool authors and friends from the AL
community for their support. We sincerely appreci-
ate the contributions of all who helped, even if not
mentioned by name.
We thank Ranjit Singh of GESIS Survey Methods
Consulting for his expertise and feedback on early
drafts of the survey, Harry Scells and Erik Körner
who reviewed and tested the survey, Gerhard Heyer
and Ingolf Römer for supporting the GDPR agree-
ments, and Bildungsportal Sachsen for providing
the LimeSurvey infrastructure, Constantin Ham-
mer, Luisa Köhler, and Jens Syckor for supporting
us with the GDPR-compliance in their roles as data
protection officers, and Ana Lisboa Cotovio for
support in the data collection for Figure 1.
9https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/

===== PAGE 11 =====
Parts of this paper have been financially sup-
ported by the German Federal Ministry of Re-
search, Technology and Space (BMFTR) and by
Sächsische Staatsministerium für Wissenschaft,
Kultur und Tourismus in the programme Center
of Excellence for AI-research “Center for Scal-
able Data Analytics and Artificial Intelligence
Dresden/Leipzig”, project identification number:
ScaDS.AI. Further parts of this work have been
conducted within the CORAL project which was
funded by the German Federal Ministry of Re-
search, Technology, and Space (BMFTR) under
the grant number 16IS24077A. Responsibility for
the content of this publication lies with the authors.
References
Joachim Baumann, Paul Röttger, Aleksandra Urman,
Albert Wendsjö, Flor Miriam Plaza del Arco, Jo-
hannes B. Gruber, and Dirk Hovy. 2025.
Large
language model hacking: Quantifying the hidden
risks of using llms for text annotation.
Preprint,
arXiv:2509.08825.
Markus Bayer and Christian Reuter. 2024. Activellm:
Large language model-based active learning for tex-
tual few-shot scenarios. Preprint, arXiv:2405.10808.
Verena Blaschke, Christoph Purschke, Hinrich Schuetze,
and Barbara Plank. 2024. What do dialect speakers
want? a survey of attitudes towards language technol-
ogy for German dialects. In Proceedings of the 62nd
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers), pages 823–841,
Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Ekaterina Borisova, Raia Abu Ahmad, Leyla Garcia-
Castro, Ricardo Usbeck, and Georg Rehm. 2024.
Surveying the FAIRness of annotation tools: Dif-
ficult to find, difficult to reuse. In Proceedings of The
18th Linguistic Annotation Workshop (LAW-XVIII),
pages 29–45, St. Julians, Malta. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Liat Ein-Dor, Alon Halfon, Ariel Gera, Eyal Shnarch,
Lena Dankin, Leshem Choshen, Marina Danilevsky,
Ranit Aharonov, Yoav Katz, and Noam Slonim. 2020.
Active Learning for BERT: An Empirical Study. In
Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP),
pages 7949–7962, Online. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Daria Galimzianova and Leonid Sanochkin. 2024. Effi-
cient active learning with adapters. In Findings of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP
2024, pages 14374–14383, Miami, Florida, USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Abhishek Ghose and Emma Thuong Nguyen. 2024. On
the fragility of active learners for text classification.
In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
22217–22233, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Bertram Højer, Terne Sasha Thorn Jakobsen, Anna
Rogers, and Stefan Heinrich. 2025. Research com-
munity perspectives on “intelligence” and large lan-
guage models. In Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025, pages 25796–
25812, Vienna, Austria. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Yufang Hou, Charles Jochim, Martin Gleize, Francesca
Bonin, and Debasis Ganguly. 2021. TDMSci: A spe-
cialized corpus for scientific literature entity tagging
of tasks datasets and metrics. In Proceedings of the
16th Conference of the European Chapter of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics: Main Volume,
pages 707–714, Online. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Fran Jeleni´c, Josip Juki´c, Nina Drobac, and Jan Snajder.
2023. On dataset transferability in active learning for
transformers. In Findings of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics: ACL 2023, pages 2282–2295,
Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Josip Juki´c, Fran Jeleni´c, Miroslav Bi´cani´c, and Jan Sna-
jder. 2023. ALANNO: An active learning annotation
system for mortals. In Proceedings of the 17th Con-
ference of the European Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: System Demonstra-
tions, pages 228–235, Dubrovnik, Croatia. Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics.
Nataliia Kholodna, Sahib Julka, Mohammad Khodadadi,
Muhammed Nurullah Gumus, and Michael Gran-
itzer. 2024.
Llms in the loop: Leveraging large
language model annotations for active learning in
low-resource languages. In Machine Learning and
Knowledge Discovery in Databases. Applied Data
Science Track: European Conference, ECML PKDD
2024, Vilnius, Lithuania, September 9–13, 2024, Pro-
ceedings, Part X, page 397–412, Berlin, Heidelberg.
Springer-Verlag.
Jan-Christoph Klie, Michael Bugert, Beto Boullosa,
Richard Eckart de Castilho, and Iryna Gurevych.
2018. The INCEpTION platform: Machine-assisted
and knowledge-oriented interactive annotation. In
Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on
Computational Linguistics: System Demonstrations,
pages 5–9, Santa Fe, New Mexico. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Philipp Kohl, Yoka Krämer, Claudia Fohry, and Bodo
Kraft. 2024. Scoping review of active learning strate-
gies and their evaluation environments for entity
recognition tasks. In Deep Learning Theory and
Applications, pages 84–106, Cham. Springer Nature
Switzerland.

===== PAGE 12 =====
Dongseop Kwon, Sun Kim, Soo Yong Shin, and John
Wilbur. 2013. Bioqrator: a web-based interactive
biomedical literature curating system. In Proceed-
ings of the fourth biocreative challenge evaluation
workshop, volume 1, pages 241–246.
David D. Lewis and William A. Gale. 1994.
A se-
quential algorithm for training text classifiers. In
Proceedings of the 17th Annual International ACM-
SIGIR Conference on Research and Development
in Information Retrieval, pages 3–12. Springer,
ACM/Springer.
Dongyuan Li, Ying Zhang, Zhen Wang, Shiyin Tan,
Satoshi Kosugi, and Manabu Okumura. 2024. Active
learning for abstractive text summarization via LLM-
determined curriculum and certainty gain maximiza-
tion. In Findings of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: EMNLP 2024, pages 8959–8971,
Miami, Florida, USA. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Jinggui Liang, Lizi Liao, Hao Fei, Bobo Li, and Jing
Jiang. 2024. Actively learn from LLMs with uncer-
tainty propagation for generalized category discovery.
In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 7845–7858, Mexico
City, Mexico. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Mingnan Liu and Laura Wronski. 2018. Examining
completion rates in web surveys via over 25,000 real-
world surveys. Social Science Computer Review,
36(1):116–124.
David Lowell, Zachary C. Lipton, and Byron C. Wal-
lace. 2019. Practical obstacles to deploying active
learning. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natu-
ral Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages
21–30, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Haocheng Luo, Wei Tan, Ngoc Nguyen, and Lan Du.
2023. Re-weighting tokens: A simple and effective
active learning strategy for named entity recognition.
In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, pages 12725–12734, Sin-
gapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Katerina Margatina and Nikolaos Aletras. 2023. On
the limitations of simulating active learning. In Find-
ings of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics: ACL 2023, pages 4402–4419, Toronto, Canada.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Katerina Margatina, Loic Barrault, and Nikolaos Ale-
tras. 2022. On the importance of effectively adapting
pretrained language models for active learning. In
Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2:
Short Papers), pages 825–836, Dublin, Ireland. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Katerina Margatina, Timo Schick, Nikolaos Aletras, and
Jane Dwivedi-Yu. 2023. Active learning principles
for in-context learning with large language models.
In Findings of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics: EMNLP 2023, pages 5011–5034, Singapore.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Katerina Margatina, Giorgos Vernikos, Loïc Barrault,
and Nikolaos Aletras. 2021. Active learning by ac-
quiring contrastive examples. In Proceedings of the
2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 650–663, Online and
Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Vânia Mendonça, Ricardo Rei, Luísa Coheur, and Al-
berto Sardinha. 2023. Onception: Active learning
with expert advice for real world machine translation.
Computational Linguistics, 49(2):325–372.
Julian Michael, Ari Holtzman, Alicia Parrish, Aaron
Mueller, Alex Wang, Angelica Chen, Divyam
Madaan, Nikita Nangia, Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Ja-
son Phang, and Samuel R. Bowman. 2023. What do
NLP researchers believe? results of the NLP com-
munity metasurvey. In Proceedings of the 61st An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 16334–
16368, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Charlotte Nachtegael, Jacopo De Stefani, and Tom
Lenaerts. 2023. ALAMBIC : Active learning au-
tomation methods to battle inefficient curation. In
Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European
Chapter of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics: System Demonstrations, pages 117–127,
Dubrovnik, Croatia. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Fredrik Olsson. 2009. A literature survey of active ma-
chine learning in the context of natural language pro-
cessing. SICS Technical Report T2009:06, Swedish
Institute of Computer Science.
Jiaxin Pei, Aparna Ananthasubramaniam, Xingyao
Wang, Naitian Zhou, Apostolos Dedeloudis, Jack-
son Sargent, and David Jurgens. 2022. POTATO:
The portable text annotation tool. In Proceedings of
the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-
ural Language Processing: System Demonstrations,
pages 327–337, Abu Dhabi, UAE. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Gabrielle Ras, Ning Xie, Marcel van Gerven, and Derek
Doran. 2022. Explainable deep learning: A field
guide for the uninitiated. J. Artif. Int. Res., 73.
Anna Rogers and Sasha Luccioni. 2024. Position: Key
claims in LLM research have a long tail of footnotes.
In Forty-first International Conference on Machine
Learning.
Julia Romberg and Tobias Escher. 2022. Automated
topic categorisation of citizens’ contributions: Reduc-
ing manual labelling efforts through active learning.

===== PAGE 13 =====
In Electronic Government, pages 369–385, Cham.
Springer International Publishing.
Christopher Schröder, Andreas Niekler, and Martin
Potthast. 2022. Revisiting uncertainty-based query
strategies for active learning with transformers. In
Findings of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics: ACL 2022, pages 2194–2203, Dublin, Ire-
land. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Christopher Schröder and Andreas Niekler. 2020. A
survey of active learning for text classification using
deep neural networks. Preprint, arXiv:2008.07267.
Artem Shelmanov, Vadim Liventsev, Danil Kireev,
Nikita Khromov, Alexander Panchenko, Irina Fed-
ulova, and Dmitry V. Dylov. 2019. Active learn-
ing with deep pre-trained models for sequence tag-
ging of clinical and biomedical texts.
In 2019
IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics
and Biomedicine (BIBM), pages 482–489.
Artem
Shelmanov,
Dmitri
Puzyrev,
Lyubov
Kupriyanova, Denis Belyakov, Daniil Larionov,
Nikita Khromov, Olga Kozlova, Ekaterina Artemova,
Dmitry V. Dylov, and Alexander Panchenko. 2021.
Active learning for sequence tagging with deep
pre-trained
models
and
Bayesian
uncertainty
estimates. In Proceedings of the 16th Conference
of the European Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Main Volume, pages
1698–1712, Online. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Yanyao Shen, Hyokun Yun, Zachary Lipton, Yakov Kro-
nrod, and Animashree Anandkumar. 2017. Deep
active learning for named entity recognition.
In
Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Representa-
tion Learning for NLP, pages 252–256, Vancouver,
Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Eyal Shnarch, Alon Halfon, Ariel Gera, Marina
Danilevsky, Yannis Katsis, Leshem Choshen, Martin
Santillan Cooper, Dina Epelboim, Zheng Zhang, and
Dakuo Wang. 2022a. Label sleuth: From unlabeled
text to a classifier in a few hours. In Proceedings of
the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-
ural Language Processing: System Demonstrations,
pages 159–168, Abu Dhabi, UAE. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Eyal Shnarch, Alon Halfon, Ariel Gera, Marina
Danilevsky, Yannis Katsis, Leshem Choshen, Mar-
tin Santillan Cooper, Dina Epelboim, Zheng Zhang,
Dakuo Wang, Lucy Yip, Liat Ein-Dor, Lena Dankin,
Ilya Shnayderman, Ranit Aharonov, Yunyao Li, Naf-
tali Liberman, Philip Levin Slesarev, Gwilym New-
ton, and 3 others. 2022b. Label sleuth: From unla-
beled text to a classifier in a few hours. In Proceed-
ings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstra-
tions, pages 159–168, Abu Dhabi, UAE. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Arjun Subramonian, Xingdi Yuan, Hal Daumé III, and
Su Lin Blodgett. 2023. It takes two to tango: Nav-
igating conceptualizations of NLP tasks and mea-
surements of performance. In Findings of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023,
pages 3234–3279, Toronto, Canada. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Zhen Tan, Dawei Li, Song Wang, Alimohammad
Beigi, Bohan Jiang, Amrita Bhattacharjee, Man-
sooreh Karami, Jundong Li, Lu Cheng, and Huan Liu.
2024. Large language models for data annotation and
synthesis: A survey. In Proceedings of the 2024 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, pages 930–957, Miami, Florida, USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Katrin Tomanek and Fredrik Olsson. 2009. A web sur-
vey on the use of active learning to support annotation
of text data. In Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2009
Workshop on Active Learning for Natural Language
Processing, pages 45–48, Boulder, Colorado. Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics.
Manuel Tonneau, Dhaval Adjodah, Joao Palotti, Nir
Grinberg, and Samuel Fraiberger. 2022. Multilingual
detection of personal employment status on Twitter.
In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume
1: Long Papers), pages 6564–6587, Dublin, Ireland.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Akim Tsvigun, Ivan Lysenko, Danila Sedashov, Ivan
Lazichny, Eldar Damirov, Vladimir Karlov, Artemy
Belousov, Leonid Sanochkin, Maxim Panov, Alexan-
der Panchenko, Mikhail Burtsev, and Artem Shel-
manov. 2022a. Active learning for abstractive text
summarization. In Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2022, pages
5128–5152, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Akim Tsvigun, Leonid Sanochkin, Daniil Larionov,
Gleb Kuzmin, Artem Vazhentsev, Ivan Lazichny,
Nikita Khromov, Danil Kireev, Aleksandr Ruba-
shevskii, Olga Shahmatova, Dmitry V. Dylov, Igor
Galitskiy, and Artem Shelmanov. 2022b. ALTool-
box: A set of tools for active learning annotation of
natural language texts. In Proceedings of the 2022
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing: System Demonstrations, pages
406–434, Abu Dhabi, UAE. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.
Akim Tsvigun, Artem Shelmanov, Gleb Kuzmin,
Leonid Sanochkin, Daniil Larionov, Gleb Gusev,
Manvel Avetisian, and Leonid Zhukov. 2022c. To-
wards computationally feasible deep active learning.
In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: NAACL 2022, pages 1198–1218, Seattle,
United States. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Michiel Van Der Meer, Neele Falk, Pradeep K. Mu-
rukannaiah, and Enrico Liscio. 2024.
Annotator-
centric active learning for subjective NLP tasks. In

===== PAGE 14 =====
Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
18537–18555, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Xinpeng Wang and Barbara Plank. 2023. ACTOR: Ac-
tive learning with annotator-specific classification
heads to embrace human label variation. In Proceed-
ings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing, pages 2046–2052,
Singapore. Association for Computational Linguis-
tics.
Leon Weber and Barbara Plank. 2023. ActiveAED:
A human in the loop improves annotation error de-
tection. In Findings of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics: ACL 2023, pages 8834–8845,
Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Max Wiechmann, Seid Muhie Yimam, and Chris
Biemann. 2021.
ActiveAnno:
General-purpose
document-level annotation tool with active learning
integration. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference
of the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-
nologies: Demonstrations, pages 99–105, Online.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Yu Xia, Xu Liu, Tong Yu, Sungchul Kim, Ryan Rossi,
Anup Rao, Tung Mai, and Shuai Li. 2024. Hallucina-
tion diversity-aware active learning for text summa-
rization. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of
the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-
nologies (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 8665–8677,
Mexico City, Mexico. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Yu Xia, Subhojyoti Mukherjee, Zhouhang Xie, Junda
Wu, Xintong Li, Ryan Aponte, Hanjia Lyu, Joe Bar-
row, Hongjie Chen, Franck Dernoncourt, Branislav
Kveton, Tong Yu, Ruiyi Zhang, Jiuxiang Gu, Nes-
reen K. Ahmed, Yu Wang, Xiang Chen, Hanieh Deil-
amsalehy, Sungchul Kim, and 15 others. 2025. From
selection to generation: A survey of LLM-based ac-
tive learning. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 14552–
14569, Vienna, Austria. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Ruixuan Xiao, Yiwen Dong, Junbo Zhao, Runze Wu,
Minmin Lin, Gang Chen, and Haobo Wang. 2023.
FreeAL: Towards human-free active learning in the
era of large language models. In Proceedings of the
2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 14520–14535, Singa-
pore. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Michelle Yuan, Hsuan-Tien Lin, and Jordan Boyd-
Graber. 2020. Cold-start active learning through self-
supervised language modeling. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 7935–7948,
Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Kamer
Yüksel,
Ahmet
Gunduz,
Mohamed
Al-
badrashiny, and Hassan Sawaf. 2023. EvolveMT:
an ensemble MT engine improving itself with usage
only. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics (Vol-
ume 5: Industry Track), pages 341–346, Toronto,
Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Xiangkai Zeng, Sarthak Garg, Rajen Chatterjee, Ud-
hyakumar Nallasamy, and Matthias Paulik. 2019.
Empirical evaluation of active learning techniques for
neural MT. In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on
Deep Learning Approaches for Low-Resource NLP
(DeepLo 2019), pages 84–93, Hong Kong, China.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Ruoyu Zhang, Yanzeng Li, Yongliang Ma, Ming Zhou,
and Lei Zou. 2023. LLMaAA: Making large lan-
guage models as active annotators. In Findings of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP
2023, pages 13088–13103, Singapore. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Zhisong Zhang, Emma Strubell, and Eduard Hovy. 2022.
A survey of active learning for natural language pro-
cessing. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
pages 6166–6190, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Yuekai Zhao, Haoran Zhang, Shuchang Zhou, and Zhi-
hua Zhang. 2020.
Active learning approaches to
enhancing neural machine translation. In Findings
of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2020, pages 1796–1806, Online. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Kaitlyn Zhou, Su Lin Blodgett, Adam Trischler, Hal
Daumé III, Kaheer Suleman, and Alexandra Olteanu.
2022. Deconstructing NLG evaluation: Evaluation
practices, assumptions, and their implications. In
Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
pages 314–324, Seattle, United States. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Appendix
A
Active Learning Publications
To obtain the data for Figure 1, we start from the
full ACL anthology in BibTeX format, including
abstracts (January 14th, 2026). In a first step, only
publications published in the context of AACL,
ACL, COLING, EACL, EMNLP, NAACL, CL, and
TACL between 2009 and 2025 were kept. This in-
cludes affiliated workshops. The resulting number
of papers constitutes the total number of publica-
tions. Subsequently, we filtered publications that
contain “active” in title or abstract. If “active” is
directly followed by “learning”, the publication is

===== PAGE 15 =====
kept without further checks, in case of other next
words, we manually checked the publication’s rel-
evance.10 The resulting number of papers consti-
tutes the total number of AL publications.
The numbers for 2025 must be interpreted with
caution, as the ACL Anthology had not yet been
fully updated with all entries at the time of analysis
(e.g., the proceedings of AACL, some workshops).
B
Survey Implementation
B.1
Survey Distribution and Advertisement
We chose a diverse distribution strategy, covering
mailing lists, direct contacts, social media, and
service providers. While some overlap between
these channels may exist, we utilize all of them to
ensure a wide outreach.
Mailing lists
The ACL mailing list covers all
current members of the Association of Compu-
tational Linguistics – about 10,400 as of end of
2024. The worldwide recipients are researchers
from academia and industry likewise.11 The ELRA
corpora-list is managed by the European Lan-
guage Resources Association. It serves as a plat-
form for sharing information related to linguistic
resources, therefore providing a way to reach re-
searchers and practitioners involved in data anno-
tation in their daily work. The exact number of
recipients on the mailing list is not public; how-
ever, it is widely assumed as reaching a substan-
tial audience. The members of ELRA SIGUL-
list are professionals involved in the development
of language resources and technologies for under-
resourced languages. By utilizing this mailing list,
we aim to gain a more diverse perspective on super-
vised learning and AL for lesser-studied languages,
trying to mitigate potential biases in data collec-
tion driven by the uneven availability of language
resources. The exact number of recipients on the
mailing list is not public. Natural Language Pro-
cessing Data Community is a google group12 for
anyone interested in NLP including computational
linguists, data scientists, and software engineers.
It counts 341 members as of the end of 2024. The
10This way, we account for wording variations such as
“active fine-tuning” or “active sampling.”
11The call to the ACL mailing list was sent out only once,
due to two reasons: first, a manual inspection period of about
two weeks by the administrators before distribution limited
us to requesting only two mailings during the survey period;
second, our second request was deleted for unclear reasons.
12https://groups.google.com/a/datacommunitydc.org/g/nlp
tada.cool initiative13 is a community of interdisci-
plinary researchers, with a focus on machine learn-
ing and NLP for social science applications. We
reached 748 members via the slack channel.
Social media
To gather more applied perspec-
tives, we identified several chat communities on
NLP and machine learning topics (e.g., PyTorch
Lightning, Hugging Face Discord, and Hugging
Face Posts) and sought approval to share the survey
on these platforms. Approval was granted for the
latter two, and the call for participation was sub-
sequently posted. We also posted participation re-
quests on several social media platforms (LinkedIn,
X, and Bluesky), which are frequented by both au-
diences. These posts were re-shared by non-author
accounts, further extending the survey’s reach.
Researchers working on AL in NLP
We cu-
rated a list of researchers who co-authored one or
more publications on AL in major NLP venues over
the past 15 years. To compile this list of experts,
we started from the AL publications identified as
described in Appendix A. We manually extracted
the email addresses from publications that men-
tioned AL directly in the title. The approach also
includes papers from workshops to capture more
practical application experiences. We contacted all
601 identified individuals by a personalized mail.
In 139 cases, the extracted e-mail addresses were
no longer functional. We added 9 further personal
contacts to complement the list.
Annotation tool providers
As an additional
strategy to incorporate practical insights from in-
dividuals involved in dataset creation efforts—
potentially supported by AL—we reached out to
individuals and companies responsible for annota-
tion tools with AL solutions for text annotation.
To identify relevant tools, we supplemented
a recent survey of annotation tools (Borisova
et al., 2024) with additional tools we encoun-
tered through years of research in AL. We con-
tacted: ActiveAnno (Wiechmann et al., 2021), AL
Toolbox (Tsvigun et al., 2022b), Argilla14, AWS
Sagemaker Ground Truth and Comprehend, Bio-
QRator (Kwon et al., 2013), CleanLab15, INCEp-
TION (Klie et al., 2018), Labelbox16, Label Sleuth
(Shnarch et al., 2022a), Label Studio17, MITRE
13https://sites.google.com/view/polsci-ml-initiative/talks
14https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla
15https://github.com/cleanlab/cleanlab
16https://labelbox.com/
17https://labelstud.io/

===== PAGE 16 =====
Annotation Toolkit (MAT)18, and POTATO (Pei
et al., 2022). We also contacted several compa-
nies and services via their official communication
channels, asking them to forward the survey to
their users. As an incentive, potential insights that
could be gained into the actual needs of users in
supervised learning and AL were emphasized. Al-
though this approach yielded limited feedback, it
nevertheless contributed to the overall outreach.
Positive responses were received from AL Tool-
box, which forwarded the call to some of their
annotators; Argilla, which permitted the call to be
shared in the Hugging Face Discord channel; Ex-
plosion, which shared the call on LinkedIn; Label-
box, which forwarded the call internally; and Label
Sleuth, which forwarded the call to their users.
In retrospect, we believe the limited engage-
ment from tool providers and companies may be
attributed to a combination of factors: an insuffi-
ciently compelling appeal or reward for sharing
that we could provide from our side, the possibil-
ity that the survey was not a suitable fit for their
interests, and the timing of the survey launch.
B.2
Survey Portal & Execution
The survey was conducted using LimeSurvey in
version 3.27.4. Participants could revise their an-
swers at any time; they could navigate back and
forth, as long as the survey had not been completed.
B.3
Participation and Completion Rates
The survey remained open for six weeks. Accord-
ing to question VII.7, mailing lists were the most
effective referral source, with noticeable spikes in
activity following each call (with declining impact).
Given this pattern, and after three waves of invita-
tions, we did not expect a significant increase in
responses by keeping the survey open longer.
Given that we have no information about the
number of subscribers to the various mailing lists,
or who we reached via social media or other means,
it is impossible to determine how many individuals
received the invitation to participate in the survey.
According to LimeSurvey statistics, 1124 individu-
als clicked the survey link. Of these, 171 began the
main content of the survey, and 144 completed it.
B.4
Data Protection
In consultation with data protection officers, we
implemented measures to ensure compliance with
18https://sourceforge.net/projects/mat-annotation/
the EU General Data Protection Regulation. Fol-
lowing it’s principle of data minimization, we col-
lected only data necessary for our research ob-
jectives. The survey was conducted anonymously,
with the option to provide an email address to re-
ceive the survey evaluation afterward. Free-form
text fields are a gray area, as participants may po-
tentially enter personally identifiable information,
particularly when combined with demographic data
collected. To meet legal obligations, we informed
participants about how any personal data would be
processed, and concluded a joint-controller agree-
ment among the institutions involved.
B.5
Anonymization for Dataset Release
For public release, text answers were manually pro-
cessed as follows. We started from the raw dataset,
excluding the separately stored email addresses.
For each field, we replaced all mentions that could
reveal the respondents’ identities with placehold-
ers, including URLs, links, email addresses, single
words, sentences, and paragraphs. We also applied
this to language mentions, as they could contribute
to de-anonymization when combined with other
fields (e.g., in case of languages that few people in
the NLP community are researching). In this con-
text, we took a conservative approach to V.2 and
V.7 by removing all answers to preserve anonymity.
For question items containing highly specific infor-
mation that may allow to draw conclusions about
the respective participant, we replaced the entries
with broader categories: IV.1 (year): 2020–2024,
2015–2019, 2010–2014, 2005–2009; V.3 (hours):
up to 20, 21–50, 51–100, 101–500, more than
500; V.4 (instance count): up to 100, 101–500,
501–1000, 1001–10,000, more than 10,000, N/A;
V.4 (instance type): documents, sentences, tokens,
other, N/A; VII.5 (countries): Africa, Asia, Eu-
rope, North America, Oceania, South America.
Responses and demographics are released sepa-
rately and randomly shuffled to prevent re-merging.
C
Full Survey
Data Annotation Bottleneck & Active Learning for NLP
in the Era of LLMs
The success of Natural Language Processing (NLP) often
depends on the availability of (high-quality) data. In particular,
the costly manual annotation of text data has posed a
major challenge since the early days of NLP. To overcome
the data annotation bottleneck, a number of methods have
been proposed. One prominent method in this context is
Active Learning, which aims to minimize the set of data that
needs to be annotated.

===== PAGE 17 =====
However, the development of Large Language Models
(LLMs) has changed the field of NLP considerably. For this
reason, it is of huge interest to us working in this field (both
in research and in practical application) to understand if and
how a lack of annotated data is still affecting NLP today.
At the center of this survey is Active Learning, which was
last surveyed in a web survey in 2009. Fifteen years later,
we aim to reassess the current state of the method from
the user’s point of view. Besides inquiring where Active
Learning is used, we also ask where it is not used in favor
of other methods. Moreover, we want to understand which
computational methods the community considers most useful
to overcome a lack of annotated data.
The survey is conducted solely for non-commercial,
academic purposes.
It specifically targets participants
who are or have been involved in supervised machine
learning for NLP. Knowledge about Active Learning is not
required. Filling out the survey will take you approximately
15 minutes.
Why should I invest my time in this survey? We need your
collective expertise in the field of NLP, Supervised Machine
Learning, or Active Learning, to understand how recent
advancements, such as LLMs, have changed the long-standing
data annotation bottleneck. The results of this survey will help
the community to better understand the state and open issues
of contemporary Active Learning, and incorporate these
insights into research and development of new methods and
technologies. To this end, a study presenting and discussing
the results of this survey will be published as an open access
publication. If you wish to be notified upon publication, you
can optionally enter your email address at the end of the
survey.
What is Active Learning? Active Learning is a method
to create a small but meaningful annotated dataset with the
goal of minimizing the annotation effort. It is an iterative
cyclic method between a human annotator and a learning
algorithm. In each iteration, an instance selection strategy
(also referred to as query or acquisition strategy) is used to
select data points that are considered particularly useful to
be annotated next. These can be, for example (among many
other strategies), the instances for which a machine learning
model is most uncertain.
The survey is initiated by the researchers Christopher Schröder
(Institut für Angewandte Informatik e. V.), Julia Romberg
(GESIS - Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences), and Julius
Gonsior (TU Dresden). If you have any questions, please
contact us via activelearningsurvey2024@gmail.com.
Consent, Data Usage, and Privacy
Declaration of Consent
[link to declaration of consent]
We need your consent before we can start collecting data for
the survey.
() Yes, I would like to participate in this survey.
() No, I would not like to participate in this survey.
Data Usage and Privacy Information: We will store your
provided answers on a server located in [anonymized for
review].
After the survey has been conducted, we will
process the collected data in order to investigate the research
questions presented above to investigate if and how a lack
of annotated data still affects the field of NLP in 2024. Our
goal is to make the collected data available to the community
under a non-commercial share-alike CC BY-NC-SA 4.0
license. The public dataset will be completely anonymous.
Any information in free text responses that could identify
specific respondents will be removed before publication of
the dataset. The processing of any personal data is detailed in
privacy information in compliance with GDPR. This includes
information on the purpose of data collection, how long we
retain your data, your rights regarding your data, and how to
contact us with any concerns.
We need your confirm that you have read and consented to the
data usage and privacy information.
() I have read the information on data usage and privacy
information and consent that my answers given in this
survey will be stored and analyzed for research purposes
as described above. I agree that my contribution will
be made available to the community as part of a public
dataset under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license. I hereby grant
the authors permission to distribute my data under these
terms. It will be ensured that no conclusions about
individuals can be inferred from this data.
I. Relevance of Annotated Data in Light of Recent
Advancements in NLP
This survey focuses on supervised learning in NLP, where
annotated data is used to train machine learning models.
1. [sc,m]19 When applying NLP methods, have you ever
encountered difficulties due to a lack of annotated data
(e.g., you had to build a new dataset, without which the
desired goal was unattainable)?
(a) Yes
(b) No [directs participants to part VII.]
You stated that you have had difficulties due to a lack of data.
2. [mc,m] Under what circumstances did you encounter
difficulties due to lack of annotated data? Select all that
apply.
(a) When working on following under-resourced lan-
guages: [text input]
(b) When working on a certain task (e.g., summariza-
tion): [text input]
(c) When working with a specific requirement (e.g.,
on a problem with many classes): [text input]
(d) Other: [text input]
Recent advancements, such as LLMs and Generative AI, have
profoundly changed the NLP landscape. Considering these
developments, do you think that a lack of annotated data is
currently a problem? Please indicate below, how much you
agree or disagree with each of these statements.
3. [sc,m] The type of tasks that I used to solve with su-
pervised learning, can be (or will soon be) solved by
leveraging generative AI to synthesize training data.
• Strongly agree, Agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Disagree, Strongly disagree (5-point Likert scale)
4. [sc,m] Many problems will still be solved as supervised
learning tasks.
19Question properties: single choice (sc), multiple choice
(mc), mandatory (m), and display conditional on previous
response (c).

===== PAGE 18 =====
• Strongly agree, Agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Disagree, Strongly disagree (5-point Likert scale)
5. [sc,m] Annotated data is still a limiting factor in the
context of supervised learning.
• Strongly agree, Agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Disagree, Strongly disagree (5-point Likert scale)
6. [sc,m] Annotated data is still a limiting factor for the
languages I work with.
• Strongly agree, Agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Disagree, Strongly disagree (5-point Likert scale)
7. [sc,m] Annotated data is still a limiting factor for
problems of a certain complexity (e.g., in summariza-
tion where summarizing long documents can be time-
consuming).
• Strongly agree, Agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Disagree, Strongly disagree (5-point Likert scale)
II. Overcoming a Lack of Annotated Data
Annotated data is required for supervised learning. In this
section, we ask about methods to overcome a lack of data in
such situations, and about your experiences with them.
1. [sc,m] Have you ever used a computational method to
overcome a lack of annotated data?
(a) Yes
(b) No
2. [mc,m,c:II1] Please choose all computational methods
that you have ever used to overcome a lack of annotated
data.
(a) Active Learning (e.g., to efficiently annotate data)
(b) Data augmentation (e.g., to use existing training
instances more efficiently)
(c) Few-shot Learning (e.g., to achieve competitive
results with only a few instances)
(d) Semi-supervised Learning (e.g., use already an-
notated data for automatic labeling of training
instances)
(e) Text generation (e.g., to generate training in-
stances)
(f) Transfer learning (e.g., to use the pre-existing
knowledge of already trained models)
(g) Weak supervision (e.g., to programmatically ob-
tain (pseudo-)annotated instances using, e.g., la-
beling functions)
(h) Zero-shot (e.g., to work without any training data
at all)
(i) Other: [text input]
3. [mc,m,c:II1] What are the reasons why you have never
used a computational method to overcome a lack of
annotated data? Please choose all options that apply to
you.
(a) I have never heard of these methods.
(b) I never coordinated an annotation project.
(c) We had enough human resources to annotate our
data.
You stated that you have used a method other than Active
Learning.
4. [sc,m,c:II2] Did you consider your chosen computa-
tional method(s) to overcome a lack of annotated data
to be successful?
• Strongly agree, Agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Disagree, Strongly disagree (5-point Likert scale)
5. [mc,m,c:II2] What are the specific reasons for not ap-
plying Active Learning? Please select all that apply.
(a) Never heard of Active Learning.
(b) Insufficient expertise/knowledge.
(c) Did not want to spend overhead in implement-
ing an Active Learning-based annotation environ-
ment.
(d) Did not know of any suitable annotation tools that
easily integrate Active Learning.
(e) Did not meet my project’s specific requirements.
(f) Wanted to avoid sampling bias in the corpus.
(g) Was not convinced that Active Learning would
reduce annotation cost.
(h) Did not use Active Learning because I couldn’t
estimate upfront its impact on reducing annotation
costs.
(i) Other: [text input]
6. [m,c:II5] Why did Active Learning not fit your specific
requirements? [text input]
7. [sc,m,c:II2] Would you consider applying Active Learn-
ing in future annotation projects?
(a) Yes
(b) No
(c) I don’t know enough about Active Learning to
answer this question.
(d) Only under specific circumstances: [text input]
8. [mc,m,c:II7] What are the reasons why you would not
apply Active Learning in future annotation projects?
(a) Active Learning has become obsolete nowadays.
(b) Active Learning is a useful concept in theory but
does not work well enough in practice.
(c) Other: [text input]
[directs participants who never used Active Learning to part
VII.]
III. Active Learning – General
In this section, we want to learn more about your experience
with Active Learning.
1. [mc,m] What is your expertise with Active Learning?
(a) I have been part of an Active Learning workflow
as an annotator.
(b) I have organized an Active Learning annotation
workflow.
(c) I have knowledge about instance selection strate-
gies in Active Learning but use pre-built solutions.
(d) I have implemented Active Learning strategies or
workflows.
(e) I have researched Active Learning.
2. [mc,m] What was your primary motivation to use Active
Learning?
(a) Obtain annotated data at minimal annotation costs

===== PAGE 19 =====
(b) Gather experience with practical applications of
Active Learning
(c) Test your annotation guidelines to identify diffi-
cult examples
(d) Other: [text input]
In the following questions, we sometimes ask about (annota-
tion) instances, by which we mean the entities to be annotated,
such as documents, words, or sentences.
3. [mc,m] What obstacles have you encountered when
applying Active Learning?
(a) Finding annotators that achieve satisfactory per-
formance
(b) Performing Active Learning with multiple anno-
tators (e.g., distributing work, resolving disagree-
ment)
(c) Unclear instructions how to annotate (lack of an-
notation guidelines)
(d) Hard cases for annotation (undecidable, ambigu-
ous, subjective)
(e) Lack of resources (GPU/TPU)
(f) Choice of model and instance selection algorithm
(g) Choice of stopping criterion
(h) Other: [text input]
4. [sc,m] Between two iterations of Active Learning, a
new model is usually trained. This new model is then
used to select new examples for annotation. What is the
maximum time you would be willing to wait between
two annotation cycles?
(a) Less than a minute
(b) 1 minute to less than 10 minutes
(c) 10 minutes to less than 1 hour
(d) 1 hour to less than 10 hours
(e) 10 hours to less than 1 day
(f) 1 day to less than 1 week
(g) I will wait long as it takes
5. [mc,m] In which scenario(s) have you worked with Ac-
tive Learning?
(a) In a lab setting with simulated annotators
(b) In an applied setting with human annotators
[directs participants that never used Active Learning in an
applied setting to part VI.]
IV. Active Learning – Methodological Setup
The following questions relate to type and scope of a previous
annotation project in which you employed Active Learning.
In case you performed more than one such annotation project,
please think of your most recent project with Active Learning
when answering the following questions.
1. [m] In which year did the project start? [text input]
2. [sc,m] Which type of machine learning model was
trained during Active Learning?
(a) Classic (Naive Bayes, Support Vector Machine,
Conditional Random Fields, ...)
(b) Neural Network (Convolutional Neural Network,
Long Short-term Memory, ...)
(c) BERT era Language Models such as BERT, GPT-
2, RoBERTa, ...
(d) Large Language Models such as Phi-3, Llama,
Mistral, Gemma, Gemini, GPT-3/4, ...
(e) Do not know
(f) Other: [text input]
3. [sc,m] What instance selection strategy20 have you used
during Active Learning? If you have tried different
strategies, please indicate the strategy that you eventu-
ally decided on.
(a) Uncertainty-based21
(b) Disagreement-based22
(c) Gradient information-based23
(d) Performance prediction-based24
(e) Density-based25
(f) Discriminative-based26
(g) Batch diversity27
(h) Hybrid (Combines different of the aforemen-
tioned concepts.)
(i) Do not know
(j) Other: [text input]
4. [sc,m] Between two iterations of Active Learning, a new
model is usually trained. This new model is then used to
select new examples for annotation. How long was the
resulting waiting time for the annotator in your scenario
on average? Please select the matching time interval.
(a) We did not retrain
(b) Less than a minute
(c) 1 minute to less than 10 minutes
(d) 10 minutes to less than 1 hour
(e) 1 hour to less than 10 hours
(f) 10 hours to less than 1 day
(g) 1 day to less than 1 week
(h) Do not know
5. [sc,m] How did you decide when to stop the Active
Learning process?
20Tooltip: The most salient component of an Active Learn-
ing setup is the instance selection strategy, which decides on
the instances to be labeled next.
21Tooltip: Selects instances for which the model is most
uncertain. Examples are least-confidence, entropy and margin-
sampling.
22Tooltip: Uses multiple models to select instances based
on disagreement between model outputs. A popular example
is query-by-committee.
23Tooltip: Selects instances based on their impact on the
model. The impact is measured by, e.g., the norm of the
gradients. A popular example is expected gradient length.
24Tooltip: Selects instances that have the most potential of
reducing future errors. Examples are policy-learning strate-
gies with reinforcement learning or imitation learning, and
cartography Active Learning.
25Tooltip: Selects instances that are representative of dense
regions in the embedding space. Density-based representatives
can be selected, e.g., based on n-gram counts.
26Tooltip: Selects instances that differ from already anno-
tated instances. Examples are selecting discriminative-based
representatives based on rare words or a lesser similarity to
the already annotated instances, as well as the use of discrimi-
native Active Learning.
27Tooltip: Selects a batch of instances that are diverse. Ex-
amples are coresets, BADGE and ALPS.

===== PAGE 20 =====
(a) Evaluation of the learned model on a held-out
gold standard
(b) Money and/or time available for annotation were
depleted
(c) All relevant documents annotated
(d) The stopping time was indicated by an algorith-
mic stopping criterion (for example based on the
current model’s performance)
(e) Do not know
(f) Other: [text input]
V. Active Learning – Task & Annotation Setup
The following questions relate to type and scope of a previous
annotation project of your choice, where Active Learning was
employed.
In case you performed more than one such annotation project,
please think of your most recent project with Active Learning
when answering the following questions.
1. [sc,m] What specific NLP task did you collect annota-
tions for?
(a) Automatic speech recognition
(b) Coreference resolution
(c) Chunking
(d) Information extraction
(e) Language generation
(f) Language understanding
(g) Machine translation
(h) Morphological analysis
(i) Named entity recognition
(j) Part-of-speech tagging
(k) Question answering
(l) Relation extraction
(m) Semantic similarity
(n) Sentiment analysis
(o) Syntactic parsing
(p) Summarization
(q) Text categorization
(r) Word segmentation
(s) Word sense disambiguation
(t) Other: [text input]
2. [mc,m] What was the language of the texts that were
annotated? (If multilingual, select multiple options.)
(a) Arabic
(b) English
(c) French
(d) German
(e) Hindi
(f) Mandarin
(g) Spanish
(h) Other: [text input]
3. [sc,m] How much time was spent on annotation in total?
In the case of multiple annotators, please enter the total
sum of hours worked by the annotators.
(a) [text input] hours
(b) Do not know
4. [m] What was the size of the resulting annotated corpus
in terms of annotated instances? Please provide the
annotation instance type in brackets, e.g. 1000 (tokens),
100 (sentences), or 10 (documents).. [text input]
5. [mc,m] Who were your annotators?
(a) Annotation was done by the project coordinators
or other project members (data scientist / linguist
roles or similar)
(b) Domain experts
(c) Non-domain experts
(d) Other: [text input]
6. [sc,m] Did you use an annotation tool with Active Learn-
ing support?
(a) Yes
(b) No
7. [sc,m,c:V6] Which annotation tool with Active Learning
support did you use?
(a) ActiveAnno
(b) Argilla
(c) AWS Sagemaker Ground Truth
(d) AWS Comprehend
(e) BioQRator
(f) INCEpTION
(g) Labelbox
(h) Label Studio
(i) MAT
(j) Potato
(k) Prodigy
(l) Other: [text input]
8. [sc,m] In annotation, what did you do with data points
that were ambiguous (i.e., caused disagreement between
multiple annotators)?
(a) Deleted them
(b) Assigned one of two labels
(c) Not applicable, each instance had at most one
annotation.
(d) Other: [text input]
9. [sc,m] While using Active Learning, did you have to
change the annotation schema due to challenging ex-
amples surfaced during the annotation process (eg, add
new classes in a classification task)?
(a) No
(b) Yes
10. [sc,m,c:V9] What did you do with previously annotated
examples?
(a) Previously annotated examples were re-annotated.
(b) Previously annotated examples were left un-
changed.
(c) Other: [text input]
11. [sc,m] Did you consider your annotation project to be
successful?
• Very successful, Successful, Neither unsuccessful
nor successful, Unsuccessful, Very unsuccessful
(5-point Likert scale)
12. [sc,m] Was the use of Active Learning as effective as
intended?
• Very effective, Effective, Neither effective nor
ineffective, Ineffective, Very Ineffective (5-point
Likert scale)

===== PAGE 21 =====
13. [mc,m,c:V12] What were the reasons that reduced the
effectiveness of Active Learning in your case of appli-
cation? Please choose all options that apply.
(a) In
retrospect,
I
had
insufficient
exper-
tise/knowledge.
(b) Overhead in setting up an Active Learning-based
annotation environment.
(c) Lack of suitable annotation tools that easily inte-
grate Active Learning.
(d) In retrospect, Active Learning did not meet my
project’s specific requirements.
(e) Active Learning created a sampling bias in the
corpus.
(f) Active Learning did not reduce annotation cost.
(g) Active Learning did not work well in my scenario.
(h) My upfront estimation of the impact on reducing
annotation costs was not accurate.
(i) The dependency of the model from the created
dataset and vice versa.
(j) Other: [text input]
14. [sc,m] Would you consider applying Active Learning
again in future annotation projects?
(a) No
(b) Yes
(c) Other: [text input]
15. [mc,c:V14] Why would you not consider Active Learn-
ing in future annotation projects?
(a) Active Learning has become obsolete nowadays.
(b) Active Learning is a useful concept in theory but
does not work well enough in practice.
(c) Other: [text input]
VI. Trends in Active Learning for NLP
In this section, we are interested in your opinion on whether
the technological and methodological developments have
affected the field of Active Learning, and what you think is
still missing.
Please indicate how much you agree or disagree with the
following statements:
1. [sc,m] Text embeddings are crucial for many methods
in Active Learning for NLP.
• Strongly agree, Agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Disagree, Strongly disagree (5-point Likert scale)
2. [sc,m] GPU-accelerated computing has changed the
choice of model in Active Learning for NLP.
• Strongly agree, Agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Disagree, Strongly disagree (5-point Likert scale)
3. [sc,m] Neural Networks have changed the choice of
instance selection strategy in Active Learning for NLP.
• Strongly agree, Agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Disagree, Strongly disagree (5-point Likert scale)
4. [sc,m] LLMs (with 1B parameters or more) are fre-
quently used in Active Learning for NLP.
• Strongly agree, Agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Disagree, Strongly disagree (5-point Likert scale)
5. What are obvious next developments for Active Learn-
ing in NLP that you believe will have a big impact on
the field? [text input]
VII. Background Information
You are almost done. We just need a few more basic pieces
of information about you in order to put your answers into
context.
1. [mc] Where are you currently working? Please choose
all options that apply to you.
(a) Academia
(b) Industry
(c) Governmental organization
(d) Other: [text input]
2. [mc] What is your education background?
Please
choose all options that apply to you.
(a) Linguistics
(b) Computational Linguistics
(c) Computer Science/Informatics
(d) Engineering
(e) Mathematics
(f) Social Sciences
(g) Other: [text input]
3. [mc] Which field are you currently working in? Please
choose all options that apply to you.
(a) Economics
(b) Education
(c) Financial sector
(d) Health services sector
(e) Humanities
(f) Information and communications technology
(g) Legal sector
(h) Public service sector
(i) Society and politics
(j) Other: [text input]
4. [sc] How many years of experience do you have in
Machine Learning/NLP?
(a) Up to 1 year
(b) 1-2 years
(c) 3-5 years
(d) 5-10 years
(e) More than 10 years
5. [sc] Which country is your primary place of residence?
(a) Dropdown menu with 196 country names
(b) Other: [text input]
6. Do you have any comments on the survey? [text input]
7. [sc] How did you become aware of the survey?
(a) Social media (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, Instagram)
(b) Personalized email invitation
(c) Mailing list (e.g., ACL Member Portal)
(d) Friend, colleague, or peer shared it
(e) Other: [text input]
D
Results
Table 3 provides a full overview of survey partic-
ipants’ responses to the predefined options for all
52 questions. It is beyond the scope of this paper to
cover all analyses enabled by the collected data, but
the public release will allow researchers to conduct
in-depth analyses of further aspects.

===== PAGE 22 =====
D.1
Conservative Estimates (No Authors)
Our targeted recruitment of authors may have led to
potential overestimation of AL in question groups
I and II (the non-AL parts of the survey). To trans-
parently account for potential author bias (response
bias), our data includes information on recruitment
methods (see VII.7). By excluding the 33 partici-
pants recruited via personalized mails, we can pro-
vide a conservative baseline. Excluding authors of
AL publications provides the following picture:
RQ1
106 out of 111 participants had encountered
a lack of annotated data. With respect to potential
changes due to recent advancements in NLP, partic-
ipants largely agree that many problems will still
require supervised learning (81%; vs. 80% in the
full participant sample), and that annotated data
remains a limiting factor; in general (93%; vs. 94%
in the full sample), for certain languages (75%;
vs. 75% in the full sample) and for problems of a
certain complexity (92%; vs. 91% in the full sam-
ple). Fewer participants agree that generative AI
for training data synthesis offers a viable solution
(30%; vs. 30% in the full sample). The response
distribution of the conservative baseline closely
mirrors that of the full participant sample.
RQ2
89 out of the 106 respondents had used
computational methods.
Adoption of active learning: AL was used by
36 respondents (40%; vs. 53% in the full sample).
When asking why participants had not chosen AL,
25% (vs. 25% in the full sample) had never heard
of it, and 51% (vs. 49% in the full sample) cited
insufficient expertise. Methodological concerns
cover the expected implementation overhead (40%;
vs. 37% in the full sample), unsuitable annotation
tools (34%; vs. 32% in the full sample), the dif-
ficulty of estimating effectiveness upfront (21%;
vs. 12% in the full sample), and sampling bias
(15%; vs. 18% in the full sample). 9% (vs. 9% in
the full sample) found it unsuitable due to specific
project requirements, and 26% (vs. 14% in the full
sample) doubted AL’s effectiveness at all.
Despite these concerns, 54% (vs. 54% in the full
sample) of those who had not yet used AL consider
it for future projects and further 37% (vs. 38% in
the full sample) indicate uncertainty due to a lack
of knowledge. One participant would explicitly
not use AL, four made its use dependent on the
specific circumstances (similar to the full sample).
While response patterns are similar in general,
the conservative sample emphasizes more the
difficulty of upfront estimation of and general
doubts about AL’s effectiveness.
Alternative methods: The current users of AL
also report obstacles in data annotation with AL.
These are: finding annotators (36%; vs. 35% in the
full sample), AL with multiple annotators (53%;
vs. 56% in the full sample), unclear annotation in-
structions (31%; vs. 29% in the full sample), hard
cases for annotation (53%; vs. 59% in the full sam-
ple), lack of GPU/TPU resources (22%; vs. 25% in
the full sample), choice of model / query strategy
(44%; vs. 49% in the full sample), choice of stop-
ping criterion (36%; vs. 35% in the full sample),
and other (6%; vs. 6% in the full sample). The re-
sponse distributions closely resemble each other.
The use of computational alternatives to AL is
widely dispersed across participants: data augmen-
tation (70%; vs. 73% in the full sample), few-shot
learning (57%; vs. 63% in the full sample), semi-
supervised learning (51%; vs. 53% in the full sam-
ple), text generation (46%; vs. 49% in the full sam-
ple), transfer learning (62% vs. 66% in the full
sample), weak supervision (40%; vs. 44% in the
full sample), zero-shot learning (48%; vs. 53% in
the full sample), and other (12%; vs. 12% in the full
sample). In the conservative baseline sample, AL
is among the least used methods. The alternative
methods were considered successful in overcoming
a lack of annotated data in slightly over half of the
cases (56%; vs. 57% in the full sample).
D.2
Sector-specific Analysis of Section 3.4
In Section 3.4, we assess the practical utility of
contemporary AL by including respondents from
academia, industry and governmental organiza-
tions. This way, we do not make a distinction be-
tween experiences reported from NLP researchers
in academic applications and practical utility “in
the real world”, as we believe that using AL-
supported annotation for the creation of research
data also offers valid practical insights (in contrast
to the AL-simulation lab scenario without human
annotators). Nonetheless, there may be consider-
able differences in usage that should be analyzed
further to inform future work. What follows, there-
fore, presents a distinction between academic (16)
and industrial/governmental respondents (20, with
3 overlaps) based on the 33 recent projects.
Models, query strategies, and stopping criteria
Both groups show similar preferences for LLMs,

===== PAGE 23 =====
VARIABLE
ACADEMIA
INDUSTRY/GOVERNMENT
# no
# yes
µyes
# no
# yes
µyes
Insufficient expertise (a)
9
2
0.18
14
1
0.07
Overhead in setup (b)
7
4
0.36
11
4
0.27
Lack of annotation tools (c)
6
5
0.45
9
6
0.4
Project-specific requirements (d)
10
1
0.09
14
1
0.07
Sampling bias (e)
8
3
0.27
12
3
0.20
No cost reduction (f)
11
0
0.00
12
3
0.20
Did not work well (g)
7
4
0.36
11
4
0.27
Inaccurate upfront estimation (h)
10
1
0.09
12
3
0.2
Dataset-model dependency (i)
7
4
0.36
13
2
0.13
Table 2: Predefined reason selection for reduced effectiveness in AL (V.13) in practical projects (2020 onward)
across sectors. We show the frequency of no (# no; the respective reason did not affect the effectiveness of AL) and
yes answers (# yes; the respective reason affected the effectiveness of AL), and the mean of yes answers (µyes).
with about two-thirds in each group using them, pri-
marily the smaller models. Industry/governmental
participants rely more on uncertainty sampling
(50% vs. 25%), and their waiting times vary more—
possibly due to a larger data pool.
Annotation tools for active learning
Anno-
tation tool use differs notably: 70% of indus-
try/governmental participants use tools vs. only
23% of those that exclusively work in academia.
Satisfaction with project
The answer distribu-
tions on the Likert scales for success and effective-
ness differed slightly between industry/government
and academia. However, the main trend is clear:
85% respectively 94% found their projects (very)
successful, and 65% respectively 63% found them
(very) effective. In case of the 23 cases of reduced
effectiveness, Table 2 provides an overview of the
response patterns for reasons. Overall, both groups
exhibit similar tendencies in the yes/no responses.
Especially, for the lack of suitable annotation tools
(c), unmet project-specific requirements (d), and
sampling bias (e), the mean values in the sample at
hand are closely aligned. Slightly more difference
can be observed in an inaccurate upfront estimation
(h) or no reduction (f) of annotation costs, with no
academic respondents indicating the latter issue. In
contrast, model-dependency of datasets (i) seems to
be more of a concern in academia, as is insufficient
expertise (a).28 90% of industry/governmental re-
spondents would use AL again without restrictions,
compared to 81% of academic respondents, who
are slightly more critical.
To sum up, while there are some usage differ-
ences, both groups align closely on effectiveness
28We refrain from applying significance tests due to the
small sample size, which limits the generalizability of the
observations and, thus, the informative value of such analysis.
Neither agree 
nor disagree
Strongly 
agree
Strongly 
disagree
Disagree
Agree
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Percentage of Participants (n=138)
...text embeddings are crucial for many methods.
In Active Learning for NLP, ...
...LLMs (with 1B parameters or more) are frequently used.
...neural networks have changed the choice of 
instance selection strategy.
...GPU-accelerated computing has changed 
the choice of model.
Figure 9: Participants’ assessment of the impact of vari-
ous methodological and technological developments on
AL using a 5-point Likert scale (cf. VI.1–4).
and reasons for reduced effectiveness, with only
minor variations. Our findings support the identi-
fied main challenges for contemporary AL across
NLP researchers and “real-world” applicants.
D.3
Selected Additional Analysis
Order of annotated data
The free-text answers
to V.4 inform us about the volume of annotated
data collected in the reported annotation projects.
For the 33 recent applied AL projects, we observe
a range from 50 to 1,000,000 annotation units, with
an average of 43,265 (three entries miss size infor-
mation). Examining differences between industry
and academic respondents, we find that the former
report creating substantially less annotated data (on
average 2,313 units) than the latter (on average
86,506 units). This may reflect more restrictive
requirements in industrial applications.
Impact of recent developments in NLP on AL
Table 9 illustrates the perception of how recent
developments in NLP have impacted AL.

===== PAGE 24 =====
SURVEY
QUESTION
MAPPING
TO RQ
n
RESPONSES (TOTAL / PERCENTAGE OF PARTICIPANTS)
I.1
RQ1
144
Yes (138 / 96%), No (6 / 4%)
I.2
RQ1
138
When working on following under-resourced languages (77 / 56%), When
working on a certain task (96 / 70%), When working with a specific require-
ment (71 / 51%), Other (119 / 86%)
I.3
RQ1
138
Strongly agree (3 / 2%), Agree (38 / 28%), Neither agree nor disagree (38 / 28%),
Disagree (39 / 28%), Strongly disagree (20 / 14%)
I.4
RQ1
138
Strongly agree (35 / 25%), Agree (75 / 54%), Neither agree nor dis-
agree (18 / 13%), Disagree (8 / 6%), Strongly disagree (2 / 1%)
I.5
RQ1
138
Strongly agree (59 / 43%), Agree (71 / 51%), Neither agree nor disagree (6 / 4%),
Disagree (1 / 1%), Strongly disagree (1 / 1%)
I.6
RQ1
138
Strongly agree (51 / 37%), Agree (53 / 38%), Neither agree nor dis-
agree (25 / 18%), Disagree (8 / 6%), Strongly disagree (1 / 1%)
I.7
RQ1
138
Strongly agree (62 / 45%), Agree (63 / 46%), Neither agree nor disagree (11 / 8%),
Disagree (1 / 1%), Strongly disagree (1 / 1%)
II.1
RQ2
138
Yes (120 / 87%), No (18 / 13%)
II.2
RQ2
120
Active Learning (63 / 53%), Data augmentation (88 / 73%), Few-shot Learn-
ing (75 / 63%), Semi-supervised Learning (64 / 53%), Text generation (59 / 49%),
Transfer learning (79 / 66%), Weak supervision (53 / 44%), Zero-shot (63 / 53%),
Other (14 / 12%)
II.3*
RQ2
18
I have never heard of these methods. (10 / 56%), I never coordinated an an-
notation project. (6 / 33%), We had enough human resources to annotate our
data (5 / 28%).
II.4
RQ2
5629
Strongly agree (4 / 7%), Agree (28 / 50%), Neither agree nor disagree (21 / 38%),
Disagree (2 / 4%), Strongly disagree (1 / 2%)
II.5
RQ2, RQ5
57
Never heard of Active Learning. (14 / 25%), Insufficient expertise / knowl-
edge. (28 / 49%), Did not want to spend overhead in implementing an Active
Learning-based annotation environment. (21 / 37%), Did not know of any suitable
annotation tools that easily integrate Active Learning. (18 / 32%), Did not meet
my project’s specific requirements. (5 / 9%), Wanted to avoid sampling bias in the
corpus. (10 / 18%), Was not convinced that Active Learning would reduce anno-
tation cost. (14 / 25%), Did not use Active Learning because I couldn’t estimate
upfront its impact on reducing annotation costs. (12 / 21%), Other (9 / 16%)
II.6*
RQ2, RQ5
5
free text answer (5 / 100%)
II.7
RQ2, RQ5
56
Yes (30 / 54%), No (1 / 2%), I don’t know enough about Active Learning to
answer this question. (21 / 38%), Only under specific circumstances (4 / 7%)
II.8
RQ2
1
Active Learning has become obsolete nowadays. (0 / 0%), Active Learning is a
useful concept in theory but does not work well enough in practice. (1 / 100%),
Other (0 / 0%)
III.1*
RQ2, RQ3
63
I have been part of an Active Learning workflow as an annotator. (24 / 38%),
I have organized an Active Learning annotation workflow. (38 / 60%), I have
knowledge about instance selection strategies in Active Learning but use pre-
built solutions. (28 / 44%), I have implemented Active Learning strategies or
workflows. (45 / 71%), I have researched Active Learning. (43 / 68%)
III.2
RQ2, RQ5
63
Obtain annotated data at minimal annotation costs (55 / 87%), Gather experience
with practical applications of Active Learning (29 / 46%), Test your annotation
guidelines to identify difficult examples (15 / 24%), Other (5 / 8%)
III.3
RQ2
63
Finding annotators that achieve satisfactory performance (22 / 35%), Perform-
ing Active Learning with multiple annotators (35 / 56%), Unclear instructions
how to annotate (18 / 29%), Hard cases for annotation (37 / 59%), Lack of re-
sources (16 / 25%), Choice of model and instance selection algorithm (31 / 49%),
Choice of stopping criterion (22 / 35%), Other (4 / 6%)
III.4**
RQ3
63
Less than a minute (6 / 10%), 1 minute to less than 10 minutes (13 / 21%), 10
minutes to less than 1 hour (3 / 5%), 1 hour to less than 10 hours (9 / 14%), 10
hours to less than 1 day (8 / 13%), 1 day to less than 1 week (11 / 17%), I will wait
long as it takes (13 / 21%)
Continued on next page
29One participant was not directed to this question after choosing solely “Other” in II.2. This applies also for II.7.

===== PAGE 25 =====
Table 3 – continued from previous page
SURVEY
QUESTION
MAPPING
TO RQ
n
RESPONSES (TOTAL / PERCENTAGE OF PARTICIPANTS)
III.5
RQ3
63
In a lab setting with simulated annotators (36 / 57%), In an applied setting with
human annotators (48 / 76%)
IV.1**
30
RQ3
48
free text answer (47 / 98%), No answer (1 / 2%)
IV.231
RQ3, RQ5
48
Classic (11 / 23%), Neural Network (5 / 8%), BERT era Language Models such as
BERT, GPT-2, RoBERTa, ... (24 / 50%), Large Language Models such as Phi-3,
Llama, Mistral, Gemma, Gemini, GPT-3/4, ... (2 / 4%), Do not know (2 / 4%),
Other (4 / 8%)
33
Classic (3 / 9%), Neural Network (4 / 12%), BERT era Language Models such as
BERT, GPT-2, RoBERTa, ... (20 / 61%), Large Language Models such as Phi-3,
Llama, Mistral, Gemma, Gemini, GPT-3/4, ... (2 / 6%), Do not know (2 / 6%),
Other (2 / 6%)
IV.3
RQ3, RQ5
48
Uncertainty-based (20 / 42%), Disagreement-based (6 / 13%), Gradient
information-based (2 / 4%), Performance prediction-based (5 / 10%), Density-
based (1 / 2%), Discriminative-based (0 / 0%), Batch diversity (1 / 2%), Hy-
brid (7 / 15%), Do not know (4 / 8%), Other (2 / 4%)
33
Uncertainty-based (13 / 39%), Disagreement-based (5 / 15%), Gradient
information-based (2 / 6%), Performance prediction-based (4 / 12%), Density-
based (1 / 3%), Discriminative-based (0 / 0%), Batch diversity (1 / 3%), Hy-
brid (3 / 9%), Do not know (3 / 9%), Other (1 / 3%)
IV.4**
RQ3
48
We did not retrain (0 / 0%), Less than a minute (8 / 17%), 1 minute to less than
10 minutes (8 / 17%), 10 minutes to less than 1 hour (6 / 13%), 1 hour to less
than 10 hours (8 / 17%), 10 hours to less than 1 day (6 / 13%), 1 day to less than 1
week (6 / 13%), Do not know (6 / 13%)
33
We did not retrain (0 / 0%), Less than a minute (3 / 10%), 1 minute to less than
10 minutes (6 / 21%), 10 minutes to less than 1 hour (6 / 21%), 1 hour to less
than 10 hours (4 / 14%), 10 hours to less than 1 day (5 / 17%), 1 day to less than 1
week (5 / 17%), Do not know (4 / 0%)
IV.5
RQ3, RQ5
48
Evaluation of the learned model on a held-out gold standard (15 / 31%), Money
and/or time available for annotation were depleted (18 / 38%), All relevant doc-
uments annotated (4 / 8%), The stopping time was indicated by an algorithmic
stopping criterion (6 / 13%), Do not know (2 / 4%), Other (3 / 6%)
33
Evaluation of the learned model on a held-out gold standard (10 / 30%), Money
and/or time available for annotation were depleted (13 / 39%), All relevant doc-
uments annotated (2 / 6%), The stopping time was indicated by an algorithmic
stopping criterion (4 / 12%), Do not know (1 / 3%), Other (3 / 9%)
V.1*
32
RQ3, RQ5
48
Automatic speech recognition (0 / 0%), Coreference resolution (1 / 2%), Chunk-
ing (0 / 0%), Information extraction (5 / 10%), Language generation (0 / 0%),
Language understanding ((0 / 0%)), Machine translation (3 / 6%), Morpholog-
ical analysis (0 / 0%), Named entity recognition (5 / 10%), Part-of-speech tag-
ging (0 / 0%), Question answering (0 / 0%), Relation extraction (1 / 2%), Semantic
similarity (0 / 0%), Sentiment analysis (3 / 6%), Syntactic parsing (1 / 2%), Sum-
marization (0 / 0%), Text categorization (22 / 46%), Word segmentation (0 / 0%),
Word sense disambiguation (0 / 0%), Other (7 / 15%)
V.2*
33
RQ3, RQ5
48
Arabic (4 / 8%), English (32 / 67%), French (5 / 10%), German (10 / 21%),
Hindi (1 / 1%), Mandarin (1 / 2%), Spanish (6 / 13%), Other (16 / 33%)
V.3*
RQ3, RQ5
48
Indication of hours (22 / 46%), Do not know (26 / 54%)
V.4*
RQ3, RQ5
48
free text answer (48 / 100%)
V.5*
RQ3
48
Annotation was done by the project coordinators or other project mem-
bers (20 / 42%), Domain experts (29 / 60%), Non-domain experts (12 / 25%),
Other (3 6%)
V.6
RQ3
48
Yes (25 / 52%), No (23 / 48%)
33
Yes (17 / 52%), No (16 / 48%)
Continued on next page
30The years of project start in the free text answer are: 2020–2024 (33), 2015–2019 (11), 2010–2014 (2), 2005–2009 (1).
31For the paper, we refined the wording by replacing “classic models” with “traditional models”.
32We updated the 2009 task selection (Tomanek and Olsson, 2009) based on http://nlpexplorer.org/ and Hou et al. (2021).
33We adopted the language selection for this question from Tomanek and Olsson (2009).

===== PAGE 26 =====
Table 3 – continued from previous page
SURVEY
QUESTION
MAPPING
TO RQ
n
RESPONSES (TOTAL / PERCENTAGE OF PARTICIPANTS)
V.734
RQ3
25
ActiveAnno (1 / 4%), Argilla (4 / 16%), AWS Sagemaker Ground Truth (0 / 0%),
AWS Comprehend (0 / 0%), BioQRator (0 / 0%), INCEpTION (2 / 8%),
Labelbox (0 / 0%), Label Studio (1 / 4%), MAT (0 / 0%), Potato (0 / 0%),
Prodigy (2 / 8%), Other (15 / 31%)
17
ActiveAnno (1 / 6%), Argilla (4 / 24%), AWS Sagemaker Ground Truth (0 / 0%),
AWS Comprehend (0 / 0%), BioQRator (0 / 0%), INCEpTION (0 / 0%),
Labelbox (0 / 0%), Label Studio (1 / 6%), MAT (0 / 0%), Potato (0 / 0%),
Prodigy (2 / 12%), Other (9 / 53%)
V.8*
RQ3
48
Deleted them (6 / 13%), Assigned one of two labels (14 / 29%), Not applicable,
each instance had at most one annotation. (15 / 31%), Other (13 / 27%)
V.9*
RQ3
48
No (27 / 56%), Yes (21 / 44%)
V.10*
RQ3
21
Previously annotated examples were re-annotated. (12 / 57%), Previously anno-
tated examples were left unchanged. (6 / 29%), Other (3 / 14%)
V.11
RQ3
48
Very successful (7 / 15%), Successful (35 / 73%), Neither successful nor unsuc-
cessful (6 / 13%), Unsuccessful (0 / 0%), Very unsuccessful (0 / 0%)
33
Very successful (6 / 18%), Successful (24 / 73%), Neither successful nor unsuc-
cessful (3 / 9%), Unsuccessful (0 / 0%), Very unsuccessful (0 / 0%)
V.12
RQ3, RQ5
48
Very effective (12 / 25%), Effective (19 / 40%), Neither effective nor ineffec-
tive (14 / 29%), Ineffective (2 / 4%), Very ineffective (1 / 2%)
33
Very effective (10 / 30%), Effective (12 / 36%), Neither effective nor ineffec-
tive (8 / 24%), Ineffective (2 / 6%), Very ineffective (1 / 3%)
V.13
RQ3, RQ5
36
In retrospect, I had insufficient expertise/knowledge. (6 / 17%), Overhead in set-
ting up an Active Learning-based annotation environment. (10 / 28%), Lack of
suitable annotation tools that easily integrate Active Learning. (11 / 31%), In ret-
rospect, Active Learning did not meet my project’s specific requirements. (2 / 6%),
Active Learning created a sampling bias in the corpus. (6 / 17%), Active Learning
did not reduce annotation cost. (4 / 11%), Active Learning did not work well in my
scenario. (7 / 19%), My upfront estimation of the impact on reducing annotation
costs was not accurate. (5 / 14%), The dependency of the model from the created
dataset and vice versa. (7 / 19%), Other (8 / 22%)
23
In retrospect, I had insufficient expertise/knowledge. (3 / 9%), Overhead in setting
up an Active Learning-based annotation environment. (7 / 21%), Lack of suitable
annotation tools that easily integrate Active Learning. (8 / 24%), In retrospect,
Active Learning did not meet my project’s specific requirements. (2 / 6%), Active
Learning created a sampling bias in the corpus. (5 / 15%), Active Learning did
not reduce annotation cost. (3 / 9%), Active Learning did not work well in my
scenario. (7 / 21%), My upfront estimation of the impact on reducing annotation
costs was not accurate. (3 / 9%), The dependency of the model from the created
dataset and vice versa. (5 / 15%), Other (4 / 12%)
V.14
RQ3, RQ5
48
No (2 / 4%), Yes (42 / 88%), Other (4 / 8%)
33
No (2 / 6%), Yes (28 / 85%), Other (3 / 9%)
V.15
RQ3, RQ5
2
Active Learning has become obsolete nowadays. (0 / 0%), Active Learning is a
useful concept in theory but does not work well enough in practice. (2 / 100%),
Other (0 / 0%)
2
Active Learning has become obsolete nowadays. (0 / 0%), Active Learning is a
useful concept in theory but does not work well enough in practice. (2 / 100%),
Other (0 / 0%)
VI.1
RQ4
63
Strongly agree (22 / 35%), Agree (29 / 46%), Neither agree nor dis-
agree (10 / 16%), Disagree (1 / 2%), Strongly disagree (1 / 2%)
VI.2
RQ4
63
Strongly agree (15 / 24%), Agree (27 / 43%), Neither agree nor dis-
agree (17 / 27%), Disagree (2 / 3%), Strongly disagree (2 / 3%)
VI.3
RQ4
63
Strongly agree (15 / 24%), Agree (22 / 35%), Neither agree nor dis-
agree (19 / 30%), Disagree (6 / 10%), Strongly disagree (1 / 2%)
Continued on next page
34We based the list of annotation tools on Borisova et al. (2024). For n = 48, in addition to 7 self-built solutions, participant-
added options emphasize further relevant tools: LabelSleuth (4; Shnarch et al., 2022a), AL Toolbox (2; Tsvigun et al., 2022b),
ALAMBIC (1; Nachtegael et al., 2023), and ALANNO (1; Juki´c et al., 2023). For n = 33, in addition to 4 self-built solutions,
participant-added options emphasize further relevant tools: LabelSleuth (3), ALAMBIC (1), and ALANNO (1).

===== PAGE 27 =====
Table 3 – continued from previous page
SURVEY
QUESTION
MAPPING
TO RQ
n
RESPONSES (TOTAL / PERCENTAGE OF PARTICIPANTS)
VI.4
RQ4
63
Strongly agree (11 / 17%), Agree (12 / 19%), Neither agree nor dis-
agree (28 / 44%), Disagree (9 / 14%), Strongly disagree (3 / 5%)
VI.5
RQ4
63
free text answer (26 / 41%), No answer (37 / 59%)
VII.1
background
144
Academia (107 / 74%), Industry (45 / 31%), Governmental organization (7 / 5%),
Other (2 / 1%)
VII.2
background
144
Linguistics (27 / 19%), Computational Linguistics (56 / 39%), Computer Sci-
ence/Informatics (88 / 61%), Engineering (23 / 16%), Mathematics (10 / 7%),
Social Sciences (14 / 10%), Other (6 / 4%)
VII.3
background
144
Economics (4 / 3%), Education (44 / 31%), Financial sector (5 / 3%), Health ser-
vices sector (12 / 8%), Humanities (24 / 17%), Information and communications
technology (79 / 55%), Legal sector (8 / 6%), Public service sector (11 / 8%),
Society and politics (7 / 5%), Other (18 / 13%)
VII.4
background
144
Up to 1 year (1 / 1%), 1-2 years (11 / 8%), 3-5 years (47 / 33%), 5-10
years (55 / 38%), More than 10 years (30 / 21%)
VII.5
background
144
Indication of country (143 / 99%), Other (0 / 0%), No answer (1 / 1%)
VII.6*
background
144
free-text answer (22 / 15%), No answer (122 / 85%)
VII.7**
background
144
Social media (16 / 11%), Personalized email invitation (33 / 23%), Mailing
list (73 / 51%), Friend, colleague, or peer shared it (13 / 9%), Other (6 / 4%),
No answer (3 / 2%)
Table 3: Overview of response selection. Each survey question is linked to a research question. We indicate the
number of participants n per question and their distribution across predefined response options. In case of questions
described in Section 3.4, we provide both the full set of respondents (n = 48) and the set of respondents that started
the reported AL project in 2020 or later (n = 33, marked in bold). Free-text responses are omitted for scope but can
be seen in the dataset, provided in the supplementary material. *: marks questions not discussed in the main body of
the paper, **: marks questions only discussed partly.
